---

title: Management service to manage a file
abstract: A method to manage a file is provided herein. The method includes use of a management service that receives the file from a peripheral device. The management service determines at least one file destination associated with a web-based service for the file. The management service transmits the file to at least one file destination with an application programming interface associated with the web-based service and an authorization stored on the management service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09462080&OS=09462080&RS=09462080
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 09462080
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120427
---
Peripheral devices scan documents and transmit the documents to a file destination. In order to transfer the file to the file destination the peripheral device includes firmware for each file destination and the peripheral device is connected to the file destination and or a computing device to transmit the file.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is illustrated by way of specific examples in which the present disclosure may be practiced. It is to be understood that other examples may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Peripheral devices may include firmware to connect to a computing device and or to transfer data to a web based service over the internet. When the peripheral device is connected to a computing device the peripheral device transfers the file to the computing device and saves the file on a hard drive of the computing device. To transmit the file to one or a plurality of file destination the user then separately logs into each web based service and manually uploads the file from the hard drive to the web based service. When the peripheral device is a web connected device the peripheral device includes a web application for each web based service that a file may be transmitted to. Each web application is predefined and only allows a user to send the document to a specific destination that cannot be modified. In order to transmit the document to a plurality of destinations each web application must be separately accessed and used via the peripheral device. Moreover any notifications provided are manually initiated using a program separate from the web application.

In examples a method apparatus and system to manage a file is provided herein. The method includes use of a management service that receives the file from a peripheral device. The management service determines at least one file destination associated with a web based service for the file. The management service transmits the file to at least one file destination with an application programming interface associated with the web based service and an authorization stored on the management service.

As used herein the phrase management service refers to a centralized web based service that connects a peripheral device to a plurality of web based services. The management service may include a combination of device s such as servers and application s such as software and or firmware that link set up and or authorize web based service accounts. A user can use the management service to access and manage a plurality of web based service accounts through programs and setting on the management service that are accessible via for example a website. The management service includes application programming interfaces APIs of one or more web based or cloud based services to facilitate access and management of the web based service accounts.

As used herein the phrase web based service refers to an electronic service accessible via a network connection such as a webpage or website on the World Wide Web or a private network.

As used herein the phrase management application refers to an application that connects a peripheral device to a file management service. The management application enables transmission of files and or content therebetween. The management service allows for files to be managed over a network and or the like in a centralized location that does not require the peripheral device to manage the application programming interface. Instead the management service stores and manages the application programming interface for multiple web based services and manages the user accounts associated with the web based services to enable access to the web based services and transmission of data therebetween such as the transmission of the file to the file destination.

As used herein the term manage or managed refer to a plurality of actions such as transmit evaluate store save email reformat and or modify.

As used herein the term file refers to an electronic document capable of being saved or stored modified evaluated reformatted on a computing device or data store and or emailed or transmitted over a network.

As used herein the phrase peripheral device refers to a device connectable to a computing device via a network connected to allow transmission of data therebetween. The peripheral device includes firmware to connect the peripheral device to the management service.

As used herein the phrase file destination refers to a device and or service that is capable of receiving a file such as memory or datastore connected to a computing device and or an email server.

As used herein the term instruction refers to content used to manage the file such as the destination settings and or accounts.

As used herein the terms scan scans and scanning include electronically scanning a media such as a sheet of paper and or scanning data from an electronic device such as an electronic copy of a document from a computing device and or mobile device or a message i.e. an email message.

The link represents generally one or more of a cable wireless fiber optic local or remote connections via a telecommunication link an infrared link a radio frequency link or any other connectors or systems that provide electronic communication. The link may include at least in part an intranet the Internet or a combination of both. The link may also include intermediate proxies routers switches load balancers and the like.

The management service represents generally any computing device or combination of computing devices configured to communicate with a peripheral device and a web based service via a web service application programming interface over a link such as an internet connection. For example the management service includes a management device with a memory that stores a set of instructions and a processor coupled to the memory to execute the set of instructions to manage the file as further described below in .

The management service receives the file from the peripheral device and determines at least one file destination associated with the web based service for the file. For example the at least one file destination includes a storage account on a web based service or cloud service such as Dropbox FilesAnywhere Evernote Box.net or OfficeDrop. The management service may also receive an instruction associated with the file from the peripheral device and or a setting associated with an account on the management service . Based on the file and instruction the management service transmits the file to at least one file destination of a linked web based service .

The management service includes at least one application programming interface or web based service application programming interface and may include a plurality of application programming interfaces. Each of the at least one application programming interface is associated with a web based service that is capable of being linked to the management service to transmit the file to the at least one file destination. The web based service application programming interface interacts with the management service and the web based service to transmit the file to the file destination.

The file transmission to the file destination associated with the web based service also includes an authorization stored on the management service . The authorization includes for example a username password combination a key and or other authentication methods that verify or confirm access to an account on a web based service . Using the management service enables the user to access one or more web based services via a single service that contains the application programming interfaces for the web based services . The management service also reduces the limitations of the peripheral device such as firmware for the plurality of application programming interfaces and compatibility issues between the peripheral device and the web based service .

The peripheral device transmits the file to the management service . For example the peripheral device may be a multi function printing and scanning device a scanning device a wireless or mobile device and or a computing device that scans a file in an electronic format. The peripheral device may also include a management application associated with the management service that enables transmission of the file to the management service . The management application may also enable content to be received from a user and or provided to the user via for example a user interface and or buttons on the peripheral device . The content may include initiation of a scan selection of options related to the file such as quality the at least one destination and or management of the file and or a notification of the status of the transmission such as success and failure of the transmission to the management service and or the at least one destination associated with a web based service .

The peripheral device represents generally a peripheral device and or a combination of peripheral devices that is are not part of the management service and is more or less dependent on the management service . For example the peripheral device may expand the management service s capabilities while not forming part of the core architecture of the management service . As illustrated in the peripheral device is connected to the management service such that the peripheral device interacts with the management service via the link .

The web based service is an electronic service accessible via a network connection such as a webpage on the World Wide Web or a private network. The web based service is capable of receiving a file from the management service . After receiving the file the web based service performs a specific function or task with the file such as storage of the file in an account editing or modifying the file and or providing the file for use by others i.e. in a common repository. Typically the web based service includes user accounts that provide a user with the ability to create and access an account associated with the web based service through the link such as an internet connection. Advantages of the web based service include the ability to access the account from anywhere via the link . Examples of the web based service include Dropbox FilesAnywhere Evernote Box.net or OfficeDrop.

The data store represents generally any memory configured to store data that is accessible via the link such as by the management service the peripheral device and the web based service in the performance of functions associated therewith. For example the data store may store account information the file the set of instructions or instructions to be executed by the processor and or application programming interfaces for a web based service .

The management device manages the file using for example a memory a processor and the application programming interface . The memory stores a set of instructions. The processor is coupled to the memory to execute the set of instructions to perform functions to manage the file. The set of instructions cause the processor to receive the file from the peripheral device determine at least one file destination associated with a web based service for the file and transmit the file to the at least one file destination using an authorization stored on the management service . The memory may also store data resulting from the execution of the set of instructions such as the file and or account information as discussed below.

The management service uses the application programming interface to transmit the file to the at least one file destination that is also associated with the web based service i.e. the file destination. The application programming interface is associated with the web based service such as Dropbox as illustrated in . The application programming interface is on and or connected to the management service . The at least one application programming interface may include a plurality of application programming interfaces APIs with one application programming interface being associated with each web based service that the management service is connectable to. The web based services provided are determined by the management service and or account settings established by the user. For example the management service may include a plurality of application programming interfaces such as a Dropbox API associated with Dropbox and a FilesAnywhere API associated with FilesAnywhere .

To use the APIs a user sets up an account through the management service and links the management service account to a web based service account. For example the user may link a Dropbox account and FilesAnywhere account to the management service account such that the management account may then transmit files to the user s Dropbox account and or Files Anywhere account based on the user s instructions and or account settings. The user is then capable of logging into and or accessing the management service . The management service becomes the connection between the peripheral device and the web based service allowing submission of files to the file destination for example one or both of the Dropbox account and FilesAnywhere account using a single service or log in through the management service .

The user accounts on the management service may include user information including web based services access or log in information for the web based service preferences for the transmission of the file to the file destination. For example a user may add preferences to the account by selecting the web based service and or file destination for the file. The preferences may be manually entered initially and updated by the user manually over time and or automatically updated and customized based on the user s actions and or selections over time. The user may also schedule a time to receive and or transmit the file to the file destination. The management service further includes a website to access and update the user account and settings of the management service .

The management service may also include an instruction associated with the file. The instruction associated with the file may be received from the user via the peripheral device such as through a user interface. The instruction may also be associated with the file by a setting of the user account on the management service . The file may be temporarily stored and or transmitted to the data store and or a content device connected to the apparatus via the link as illustrated in .

Referring to a block diagram of the system of is illustrated according to a further example. The block diagram illustrates the link connecting the management service to the peripheral device the web based service the data store and the notification service . The management service includes at least the apparatus of such as the management device with for example a management engine associated with the memory the processor the web based service API and may include further components such as a web based services engine an account engine an authorization engine and a notification engine .

The management engine represents generally any combination of hardware and or programming to manage a file that is received from the peripheral device such as a scanning device A. For example the management engine interacts with firmware on the peripheral device to assist with scanning and transmitting the file to the management service .

The web based services engine represents generally any combination of hardware and or programming to manage and link the web based services associated with the management device. For example the web based service engine may include the web based services API for each web based service associated with the management service .

The account engine represents generally any combination of hardware and or programming to manage a user account on the management service . For example the each user of the management services has a distinct account on the management service and each user account on the management service may be linked to web based services via the user s web based service account which is distinct from the management service account but capable of being linked via the web based service API. The management service uses information associated with the user s account information to access the web based service s associated therewith such information includes account settings and preferences for the management services and or user names and passwords for the web based accounts.

The authorization engine represents generally any combination of hardware and or programming to authorize a transmission of the file. For example the authorization engine verifies access to the linked web based services account via for example a user name and password and or additional methods such as a security key or certificate to ensure a secure transmission of the file. The authorization engine may also contain additional information to commence the transmission of the file to the file destination.

The notification engine represents generally any combination of hardware and or programming to provide a notification of the status of a transmission of the file to the at least one file destination. For example the notification engine may indicate a success or failure at different times during the transmission of the file from the peripheral device to the file destination such as when the file is transmitted to and or received by the management service and when the file is transmitted to and or received by the file destination.

The management engine the web based services engine the account engine the authorization engine and notification engine may include the memory and the processor as illustrated and described in . The functionality of the management engine the web based services engine the account engine the authorization engine and notification engine are further described below in .

The management service functionalities may be accomplished using a memory on the management device or a data store connected to the management service via the link . The data store is physically located on the management device and or on a separate device connected to the management device via the link such as a database on a server or a disc insertable into the management device . The data store stores a variety of content such as account information A a file B the web based services API and or the set of instructions D that are executed by the processor . The data store may be adapted to store additional content based on the functionalities of the management service .

The set of instructions D stored in the data store include instructions to receive the file from the peripheral device determine at least one file destination associated with a web based service for the file and transmit the file to the at least one file destination using an authorization stored on the management service . The memory and or data store may also store content resulting from the execution of the set of instructions D such as the file i.e. a copy of the file received from the peripheral device . Moreover the account information stored in the data store may include a user account for each user that contains a log in for the web based service an account setting such as a file destination a file format and a notification instruction. The web based service application programming interface includes an application programming interfaces associated with the web based service where each web based service may include a separate web based service API.

The files B may be stored on a database such as the data store and or separate databases. The files B may be stored on the database temporarily before transmission to the file destination and or permanently as a copy of the file transmitted to the file destination or as the file destination. The data store may also store a set of instructions D to manage the file from the peripheral device such as the scanning device A via the management service . The set of instructions D may be stored in a data store such as a database external to the management service a disc and or a data storage device on the management device such as the memory .

The peripheral device is illustrated as a scanning device A. The peripheral device represents generally a peripheral device and or a combination of peripheral devices . The peripheral device represents a device that is not part of the management service and is more or less dependent on a computing device such as the management device of the management service . For example the scanning device A may expand the management service s capabilities while not forming part of the core architecture of the management device .

As illustrated in the scanning device A is connected to the management service such that the scanning device A interacts with the management service via the link . The scanning device A scans a document to create an electronic file to be received by the management service . The peripheral device may further include a management application on and or connected to a peripheral device . The management application provides firmware and or an application programming interface between the peripheral device and the management service to facilitate transmission of the file and communication therebetween.

The system is illustrated to further include a user interface . The user interface is connected to or integrated into the peripheral device such as the scanning device A. For example the user interface may be a display on a peripheral device and or connected to the peripheral device over a network such as the link of . The user interface displays content such as a list of options and or a notification from the management service to a user and receive input from the user such as an instruction and or selection for transmission to the management service . The user interface may be coupled to the management application to display content such as scan and file destination options to a user and receives input from the user. For example the user interface may be utilized to initiate the scan to provide a file destination on a web based service and or to indicate a selection of a notification method for a status of the transmission of the file

The web based service is an electronic service accessible via a network connection such as a website on the World Wide Web or a private network. The web based service is capable of receiving a file from the management service . After receiving the file the web based service performs a specific function or task with the file such as storage of the file in an account editing or modifying the file and or providing the file for use by others i.e. in a common repository. Examples of the web based service include Dropbox FilesAnywhere Evernote Box.net or OfficeDrop. The web based service includes a file destination that receives the file transmitted from the management service .

The system further includes a notification service to provide a notification of a successful and or unsuccessful transmission of the file to the at least one file destination. The notification service represents generally a computing device a peripheral device and or a combination of computing and peripheral devices. The notification service may be part of the management service or a separate device that is not part of the management service but may expand the management service s capabilities while not forming part of the core architecture of the management service . As illustrated in the notification service is connected to the management service via the link such that the notification service interacts with the management service . The notification service may perform at least one function such as display a message regarding the transmission of the file from the peripheral device to the web based service via the management service . For example the message may provide information to a user regarding the successful and or unsuccessful transmission of the file such as confirmation of a successful receipt of the file to the management service and or successful transmission of the file to the at least one file destination . In addition the notification may be delivered to the user through for example a mobile device A such as a text message an email B and or a graphical user interface on a computing device C such as an instant message however other communication devices with the functionality described herein may also be used to perform the above described functionality.

Referring to a block diagram of an example of a computer readable medium useable with the system of is illustrated. The computer readable medium represents generally any combination of hardware and or software to manage a file from a peripheral device . The computer readable medium is part of the system of such as a management service on a cloud server system that operates with the management device . The management device includes a memory and a processor . For example the memory stores a set of instructions D and the processor execute the set of instructions D. The set of instructions D cause the processor to receive the file from the peripheral device determine at least one file destination associated with a web based service for the file and transmit the file to the at least one file destination using an authorization stored on the management service . The processor may further include instructions to update an account connect to a web based service authorize transmission of the file to the file destination and or notify the user of the status of the transmission of the file from the peripheral device to the management service and or the web based service . The processor represents generally any processor configured to execute program instructions stored in the memory to perform various specified functions.

An interface provides interactive functions to a user via the peripheral device . The interface represents generally an interface connected to the peripheral device and or the management device .

The memory is illustrated to include an operating system and applications . The operating system represents a collection of programs that when executed by the processor serve as a platform on which applications may run. Examples of operating systems include various versions of Linux s Red Hat Microsoft s Windows Apple s Mac OS Apple s iOS trademark licensed from Cisco and Google s Android .

Applications represent program instructions that when executed by the processor functions as an application such as software that manages a file from a peripheral device . The executable program instructions stored in memory are illustrated as including a management module a web based services module an account module an authorization module and a notification module .

The management module represents program instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to execute the instructions to receive the file from the peripheral device . The executable instructions stored in the management module may include a set of instructions D from the data store . In response to the receipt of the file from the peripheral device the management module further provides instructions to determine at least one file destination associated with a web based service for the file and transmits the file to the at least one file destination using an authorization stored on the management service .

The web based services module represents program instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to run the web based service application programming interface and establish a connection between the management service and the web based service . For example the web based services module may use the web based service application programming interface to connect to a user s account on the web based service . The executable instructions stored in the web based services module may include the set of instructions D from the data store .

The account module represents program instructions that when executed by a processor cause the account settings to be set up updated and or modified. The account settings may be received from the website via a computing device and or through content from the peripheral device . For example the account settings may be set up from a computer a mobile device A and or a scanning device A. The executable instructions stored in the account module may include the set of instructions D from the data store .

The authorization module represents program instructions that when executed by a processor cause the connection between the management service and the web based service that authorizes the transmission of the file therebetween. The executable instructions stored in the authorization module may include the set of instructions D from the data store and authorization information may also be stored on the data store . In response the authorization the file may be transmitted to the file destination on the web based service . The authorization module provides further instructions to the processor to provide a secure connection.

The notification module represents program instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to provide a notification of the transmission of the file to the at least one file destination. The notification may include a notification to a user via the peripheral device and or a separate device such as a computing or mobile device. The notification may further trigger an event by the management service and or the web based services using for example the file. The executable instructions stored in the notification module may include a set of instructions D from the data store .

Referring to the management engine the web based services engine the account engine the authorization engine and the notification engine are described as combinations of hardware and or programming. The hardware portions may include the processor . The programming portions may include the operating system applications and or combinations thereof. The programming may be processor executable instructions stored on a tangible memory media. The memory may store program instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform the program instructions as described with respect to the management module web based services module the account module the authorization module and the notification module . The memory may be integrated in the same device as the processor or it may be separate but accessible to that device and processor .

In some examples the program instructions may be part of software that can be executed by the processor to perform a method using the system . The memory may be a portable medium such as a CD DVD or flash drive or a memory maintained by a server from which the software can be downloaded and installed. In other examples the program instructions may be part of an application or applications already installed for example scanner drivers installed on the management service . In further examples the memory may include integrated memory such as a hard drive.

In block a management service receives the file from a peripheral device. For example a web connected peripheral device with a management application obtains the file and transmits the file to the management service. The management service receives the file and proceeds according to account setting and or an instruction included with the file. The management service determines at least one file destination associated with a web based service for the file in block . The management service includes an application programming interface associated with the web based service and an instruction associated with the file. The management service may connect to a plurality of web based services. Each web based service associated with the management service includes an application programming interface associated therewith. The management service transmits the file to one or a plurality of the web based services using the application programming interfaces and the instruction. The instruction may be received from the peripheral device such as via a user interface and or from an account setting on the management service. Moreover the management service may transmit the file to a default location based on account settings associated with the management service.

In block the application programming interface transmits the file to the at least one file destination using an authorization stored on the management service. The application programming interface links the management service to one and or a plurality of the web based services. The file is transmitted to one and or a plurality of distinct file destinations according to a command from the user interface and or an account setting. The management service and or the application programming interface authorize the file destination. The authorization may be initially determined through the user account on the management service such as via the website and or at the time the file is transmitted to the web based service using the authorization module and the application programming interface.

The management service connects to web services via an application programming interface API associated with each web based service in blocks and . For example the user may request that the file may be transmitted to two distinct destinations Dropbox and Evernote which would result in the management service connecting to both Dropbox and Evernote simultaneously and or in series. Blocks and illustrate that authorization of the user s accounts with each of the web based services i.e. Dropbox and Evernote . After the authorization occurs the files may be transmitted to the file destination associated with each of the services i.e. Dropbox and Evernote in blocks and . The transmission of the file to the web based services may also provide one or more notifications via the management service illustrated as a single notification in block however each transmission may include a separate notification and or each transmission may include a plurality of notification based on the account settings. For example the notification may be transmitted via an email short message service SMS instant message message on the user interface of the peripheral device to indicate successful and or unsuccessful transmission s of the file s .

Although the flow diagrams of illustrate specific orders of execution the order of execution may differ from that which is illustrated. For example the order of execution of the blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also the blocks shown in succession may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. All such variations are within the scope of the present invention.

Examples can be realized in any computer readable media for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as a computer processor based system or an ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit or other system that can fetch or obtain the logic from computer readable media and execute the instructions contained therein. Computer readable media can be any media that can contain store or maintain programs and data for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system. Computer readable media can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic or semiconductor media. More specific examples of suitable computer readable media include but are not limited to a portable magnetic computer diskette such as floppy diskettes or hard drives a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory or a portable compact disc.

The present disclosure has been described using non limiting detailed descriptions of examples thereof and is not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure. It should be understood that features and or operations described with respect to one example may be used with other examples and that not all examples of the present disclosure have all of the features and or operations illustrated in a particular figure or described with respect to one of the examples. Variations of examples described will occur to persons of the art. Furthermore the terms comprise include have and their conjugates shall mean when used in the present disclosure and or claims including but not necessarily limited to. 

It is noted that some of the above described examples may include structure acts or details of structures and acts that may not be essential to the present disclosure and are intended to be exemplary. Structure and acts described herein are replaceable by equivalents which perform the same function even if the structure or acts are different as known in the art. Therefore the scope of the present disclosure is limited only by the elements and limitations as used in the claims.

