---

title: Telecommunications system and method which makes it possible to establish telecommunications with a vehicle user by means of the number plate
abstract: A communication system and method is disclosed which makes it possible to establish telecommunications with the vehicle user by the vehicle number plate code, making it possible to establish telecommunications with the vehicle owner by the public number and unique identification, thereby linking them to a communication system of the owner's choice (a mobile telephone number, e-mail, web profile or personal analog communication means), which is hidden from third parties, as well linking the users to certain pre-established communication functions (functionality codes), which respond to concrete needs of the users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09357060&OS=09357060&RS=09357060
owner: PERSON TO VEHICLE S.L.
number: 09357060
owner_city: Madrid
owner_country: ES
publication_date: 20120131
---
This is a National Stage of International Application No. PCT ES2012 070061 filed Jan. 31 2012 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

A first aspect of the present invention refers to a telecommunications system which makes it possible to establish telecommunications with a vehicle user by means of its number or license plate. A second aspect of the present invention refers to a method for establishing telecommunications by means of said system.

The first aspect of the invention namely the system makes it possible to establish telecommunications with vehicle users in a direct and immediate way by means of the public data of the same thereby making it possible amongst other options to instantly resolve concrete communication needs of the user themselves or of third parties i.e. of the vehicle user themselves pedestrians or any other person organisation or institution.

In a second aspect the invention proposes a person to vehicle P2V telecommunications method which implements said system thus making it possible to offer the establishment of telecommunications with any vehicle user via the public data of their vehicle especially based on its number plate. The present invention makes it possible to develop a channel which resolves all the communication needs of any vehicle user regarding the same in a simple and direct way by means of the network connection of vehicles via its number plate.

The application field of the invention is that of systems related to communication methods telecommunication between people and specifically between vehicle users.

We know that all vehicles driven in any country are publically identified using an international number plate system. This number plate system functions by each individual vehicle having a unique code or registration which identifies it by means of the official public registry as belonging to its owner in such a way that it makes it possible to communicate with the vehicle owner or user.

Likewise we know that there is a constant need to communicate with vehicle holders regarding many diverse aspects of their vehicle whether administrative legal commercial or simply the need for straight forward necessary or relevant information and whether these holders are legal or physical persons. However despite this constant need the management of information is very costly in both a technical and economic sense as well as in terms of the energy used in order to achieve this goal or in other words to establish communication with a vehicle user via the public information that currently exists. Currently access to information and communication for both private parties companies and for the administration themselves involves indirect expensive and not very operative methods. Therefore there is a problem in establishing contact or communication with vehicle owners in a quick and agile way.

Furthermore in the state of the art there are many automatic communication systems which allow vehicles to communicate with one another or vehicles to communicate with external devices with which they exchange functional or useful information. They are inter vehicle communication systems machine to machine into the development and implementation of which car manufacturers invest a large quantity of resources and in the processes of which people do not intervene these systems making it possible to offer a wide range of communication services to the user including active and updated information regarding traffic safety emergencies incidents recognition by means of OCR GPS guidance and location etc.

The communication protocols for said systems and processes are complicated by means of automatic exchange systems for exchanging a large amount of information between vehicles without the user intervening in the communication. Large companies in the automobile industry are working together with telephone and software development companies to design this kind of products and services. Services such as e call b call more sophisticated localisation means for stolen vehicles systems which provide distance supervision on the mechanical state of the vehicle which provide on road guidance or up to date information on the traffic situation etc. will be part of the packages mounted into vehicles by manufacturers in the near future.

However in most of these cases these systems no not allow a human transmitter to send a message or initiate dynamic communication with a vehicle user with whom exchange is made or to whom information is directed.

The telecommunications system and method object of the present invention makes it possible for any transmitter user to establish telecommunications with the receptor user of a vehicle by means of the number plate or in other words using the number plate or registration of each vehicle. The method consists in automating a homogenous sequence of information or a code generated by an algorithm which contains all the information needed to carry out the desired communication function or in other words send the message. The latter is achieved by means of establishing communication between users transmitter and receptor based on using the receptor user s code preferably formed by the country code together with the number plate and the code of the communication code desired to be performed or function code this function being chosen from a pre determined number of pre established communication functions. The general structure of the method does not change any that are the characters or terms used to describe the communication function the message made or the channel through which it arrives to the user. In this way the information sequence formed by the message generates an algorithm which may be interpreted by a telecommunications application module or command interpreter and redirected to the receptor linked to the number plate of the vehicle with which communication is desired.

Therefore said algorithm implies at least one code which comprises the number plate of the vehicle with which communication is desired plus an information unit of a pre defined or encoded communication function in order to be incorporated or interpreted by the telecommunication application module or command interpreter in charge or redirecting the output message from the transmitter to the receptor.

The telecommunications channel is formed from a network structure implemented to serve as a communications means via the internet and or a mobile phone mainly. A transmitter user may thus contact another receptor user via their online profile with the public data pertaining to their vehicle if it is as such it is established and for the pre established functions which are activated in a database without exposing any private data. This database will contain the public information pertaining to the vehicle as well as private information and preferences of the vehicle user or owner.

In this way when a transmitter registered in said database wishes to establish person to vehicle communication with another user who is also registered using their public identification or number plate be it in response to a pre defined request of the receptor user or on their own initiative and via any of the channels activated to such end by the users for example SMS e mail telephone call web or mobile application or any other known channel the aim is to successfully send a pre defined code according to the specific telecommunication function desired to be established with the precise data in order to be interpreted by a telecommunications application module or command interpreter comprised in telecommunications system server. The body of the code which includes the receptor s number plate as well as the pre defined function code will preferably begin with the number plate of the network user s vehicle followed by the international number plate code unique to each origin country for example E for Spain and according to the international automobile initials of each country this code being linked to the vehicle user registered in the network by means of said database. Based on this code the message sent by the transmitter will be recognised interpreted and redirected by the telecommunications application module towards the receptor if this is registered in the database by means of the telecommunications channels activated in their profile in the database. The key codification which follows the number plate in the text message generated by an algorithm which determines the type of communication received and the content of the same. The telecommunications application module after having recognised and interpreted the message code deciphers it and redirects it to the receptor device when the same is activated in the system.

The method applied by means of the telecommunications application module or interpretation and management module for the commands corresponding to the codes linked to specific pre established communication functions on a public vehicle database online constantly updated and in which the private data is exclusively introduced and managed by the owners holders or users thereof makes it possible to establish immediate telecommunication between the same i.e. they receive analogue telephone or VoIP calls SMS e mails notifications by means of data traffic via a native mobile application etc. . via the public number plate code of their vehicle at their will and once the system has been activated.

A telecommunications system according to claim therefore forms a first object of the present invention.

Based on the above in order to run the communication functions according to the telecommunication method with vehicle users it is necessary for the system to check the registration or a vehicle number plate with which a transmitter user or first user already registered wishes to communicate or in other words to verify the existence of the receptor user in the database and if said receptor user is registered in the determined system and will decide on which type of notifications of all those available that said user has configured as well as those communications channels preferred and pre defined by the same. This facilitates a transmitter to receptor communication without the related parties knowing undesired personal data.

In order to initiate communication the transmitter generates an output message composed of at least the following codification country code receptor number plate pre defined communication function code.

The message arrives at the telecommunications application module programmed to analyse the message code and the registration and act as a result based on the preferences registered in their profile in the data base by the receptor for example the communication channel it being possible for the server to re send the complete message to the receptor or only a notification that a message exists via the chosen channel for this purpose to the receptor. This output message from the server therefore corresponds to the communication function pre determined and activated by the receptor user.

Finally the receptor user registered in the data base and linked to the vehicle with which a first user wishes to establish communication receives the message notification or notification sent by the first user or transmitter.

The method object of the present invention may be implemented in mobile terminal operative systems by means of its own native application in which the code for each function appears below an interface by way of function icon so that the transmitter does not have to write the text message or function code but rather it is only necessary to introduce the number number plate of the user to whom the communication is directed into the application. In other words the entire construction of the method codification is below an interface represented by means of function icons built into the communications terminal.

The method may also be run from conventional mobile telephones by means of the command sequences described whether formatted by means of templates or by means of individualised management.

In order to run the person to vehicle communication functions between a first transmitter user and a second receptor user linked to a vehicle it is necessary for the registration of the same user existence to be verified in the network database using the complete number plate country code number plate as well as the various notifications that the user has configured and the pre defined communication channels. This will facilitate transmitter to receptor communication without the related parties finding out unwanted personal data.

The following communication channels amongst others are contemplated via a native application communications and notifications managed by the mobile application via web application notification management module via the web via SMS via e mail VoIP or analogue call.

Each user will have a public profile in the system which will depend on the personal configuration they give it. In response to the user configuration regarding privacy each user will have a profile page assigned to them where all the public information they wish to share or edit at any time is shown. Likewise there will be a public profile for each vehicle or vehicles linked to each user. In response to the user configuration regarding privacy each user will have both vehicle profile pages and pages for vehicles linked to this profile where all the public information they wish to share or edit at any time is shown. The public profile of each vehicle has a URL which may be shared which will grant access to the data marked as public by the user or open re. the vehicle.

This user profile is characterised in that it comprises an application programming interface API which enables the users to send receive store and recover message data by means of which the user is able to manage the functions of the communications they wish to be active at all times as well as the way channel these are communicated to them based on a relation matrix between the functions and the channels in such a way the entire function that generates automatic notifications via any channel may be activated or deactivated at any time. Furthermore where it is possible to choose the notification channels in an individual or multiple way all none or some .

A high low modification function for vehicles linked to the user who registered them will exist in the system. For this the following is necessary 

When it comes to admitting the vehicle in the system the same will verify that the number plate has not previously been registered sending a notification in the event of the contrary. Access will be granted to the number plate search in order to find your vehicle and the user profile it is registered to.

The user may manage what information he shares and with whom at all times. Therefore a data publication system will be established based on information tight vaults. Information to be stored in the tight vaults is defined as follows 

On this information which the user wishes to share it is possible to define visibility permissions for levels of visibility or the extent to which information to be shown on the profile is public. These levels range from the most open public to the most restricted private . These vaults contain information that may be shown or hidden according to the user s preferences.

It is necessary for the user to be able to manage the pre defined telecommunication services and functions that they wish to have active at all times as well as the way or cannel in which the communication should take place. This will generate a matrix of the functions and channels. All functions will generate automatic notifications via a channel and may be activated or deactivated via this matrix. It is possible to choose multiple notification channels all none or some .

The system furthermore incorporates a function for showing the different states of the vehicle which may be edited at all times as chosen by their owner or user. The states may be represented by means of icons . Therefore for the visibility of this information an icon will be shown on the public profile. It will be possible for this section to be managed by users who define the various states that may or may not be made visible on the public profile. Examples of states defined by icons on the profile may include vehicle for sale vehicle active active inbox vehicle for sharing vehicle stolen etc.

The system has an inbox function. The inbox will be a common place for messages left by other users of the application from any channel voice SMS community etc. . These messages may be text voice or image messages. The inbox must also be capable of supporting HTML completely. It is possible to control the amount of messages sent to the same recipient in a period of time and total messages sent in a period of time. The receptor user is able to see the messages left in the inbox at all times via the web or mobile application. The inbox will have a message search filter including text associated number plate date sent etc. The inbox will contain the messages left in the vehicle s inbox. If it is such the message would be left marked with the number plate of the associated car. The user can edit or delete these messages. The inbox itself would be a function that the user may activate or deactivate.

In all communication via any channel established a communication record is established. This record would be linked to the vehicle by means of the number plate and to the user who sends it. In this way there will be two records one for sent messages associated to the user profile and another register for received messaged linked to the vehicle in question. The information saved may include transmitter user message chosen communication channel SMS email application etc. communication date receptor user vehicle or any other data considered relevant. This record will be in the application permanently but it is possible for the user to mark it should he wish to no longer view the current record clean .

Likewise there will be a profile search function for vehicles in the system. In order to access the profile search quickly there will be a search engine searcher linked to the system database in order to carry out the search according to the number plate and other criteria shown on public profiles. The search engine will generate results as text is introduced into the number plate live search . This will generate a list of all the number plates that coincide with the search. Each element on the list will have a link to the user s public profile and to the vehicle s public profile.

Of the communication functions to be loaded only those which are active are shown. Based on the information selected by the user in the communication functions the application will be capable of sending the message received to the receptor by means of the configured channel. These functions may be amongst others 

The notification functions are functions which usually end in one single text message which contain the useful information to be transmitted. They operate by means of a brief text with a key code BOTHER FINE DISTANCE etc. following the number plate code when they arrive at the code management system produce a pre defined output message directed at the user containing the notification so that the function is activated your car is causing bother you have received a fine somebody has approached your car etc. Some notification functions that the server will be capable of analysing and managing automatically are as follows free text bother fined fine contact sale share reach forgotten courtesy indicators online amongst many other possibilities.

Other particular functions of the system as well as other characteristics of the processes additional to those already mentioned are described below.

A first example of the telecommunications method shown in a general fashion in in accordance with the above description object of the present invention refers to the communication between two users registered in the database and therefore in the system object of the invention wherein one of the users has activated in said database a communication function pre defined in the system.

In this diagram the transmitter activates their communication device with the P2V Person to Vehicle system object of the invention. Said transmitter user wishes to contact the user of a vehicle by means of the number plate of said vehicle the number plate which the transmitter user may or may not know. If the number plate is not known the P2V P2V database system database is consulted and if the number plate is registered in the P2V database the system transfers the public information such as active functions of the P2V system and the contact channels enabled to the transmitter. If the number plate has not been registered in the database of the P2V system the transmitter user will not be able to establish communication with the vehicle user.

On the other hand if the number plate is found to have been registered in the database of the P2V system the transmitter user writes the output message including the number plate and a function code which has been predefined in the system. The message is sent after having been codified by means of executing an algorithm via the telecommunications application module and the telecommunications server of the P2V system who re sends the pre defined message to the receptor or in other words to the user linked to the number plate via the pre defined channel selected by the receptor. The message is therefore received in the device chosen by the receptor which is authorised to choose between answering the transmitter user or not.

In particular the activated pre defined function is the Bother function an example shown in which authorises the telecommunications application module that said user may receive alters on various occasions on which their vehicle it bothering a third party.

In a situation in which a first vehicle is bothering a second vehicle both vehicles being registered in the system the user of the second vehicle or transmitter user wishes the notification the user of the first vehicle or receptor the contact data of whom they do not know. The transmitter must firstly consult the database of the P2V system in which each vehicle is registered and identified by means of its public number plate in order to know whether the user of the vehicle he wishes to contact is registered in the system or database of the same. The system checks the receptor s register and where appropriate the various pre defined communication functions defined by the same to this effect and sends a message to contact the receptor via the system which checks that the receptor is registered in such a way that said message comprises the public identification code or number plate and the pre defined communication function code which in this case would be bother . An example of the codification of the message sent would be E 1111AAA BOTHER . This message is formed by the country code the number plate of the receptor 111AAA the pre defined communication function code BOTHER .

Via the telecommunications application module of the P2V system the server receives the message via any of the channels activated to this end by the transmitter. The server checks whether the receptor is registered in the system interprets the message and checks whether the receptor has activated the function that corresponds to the pre defined function code included in the message. If this is so the server re sends an output message to the receptor which corresponds to the communication function BOTHER via the preferred channel or channel defined by the receptor in the database.

The receptor receives the notification in the output message Your car is causing bother and may or may not respond to the same.

Another example referring to pre defined notification functions refers to a transmitter carrying out the FREE TEXT function which equates to the user sending a determined text message for a specific receptor provided that the receptor has enabled the possibility of receiving this kind of communication. The message to be sent by the transmitter would be coded as follows 

The code may for example be E 1111AAA FREE TEXT Text the transmitter wishes to send . This text would be copied literally into the output message sent from the server to the receptor which would generate a notification to the receptor user via the channels activated by the same which may include 

Another example in which a transmitter wishes to carry out the pre defined CONTACT function would result in a generic contact with the transmitter request message being send. Following the previous structure the message would be coded as follows 

In this case the code would be E 1111AAA CONTACT . This message sent by the server to the receptor user would generate a notification to said user which may be 

The system also comprises a sub system of automated responses. Some of the pre defined functions of the service end in one single message or notification for example the notification functions but others would start a two way communication between users. For this reason for certain pre defined functions of the communication method which imply an information exchange or communication between two registered users it is possible for the receptor user to have an automated response or responses system which is activated with the initial message received. Therefore the telecommunications application module via the server automatically manages the messaging in such a way that after receiving this first message it responds with an automatic reply message. This automatic reply message will have been previously introduced into the system by the receptor user registered in the network by means of a profile tool designed to insert automatic response texts images or sounds for replying to the pre defined communication messages. The automatic response system will be highly useful to the user in terms of determining service functions especially those concerning commercial transactions sale information etc. making it possible to automate all the data exchange processes the response information of which is introduced into the message just once .

For example when the SALE FUNCTION is being used by means of which a user determines that their vehicle is for sale the automatic message management system after receiving the message from the transmitter interested in buying the vehicle responds with an automatic reply message containing all the data of the offer in a sale announcement text and the contact means or data that the user wishes to include a link to the profile online and even the possibility of attaching images or sending a MMS with photos of the vehicle etc. This automatic reply message will have been previously introduced into the system by the user registered in the network using a template of the profile designed to insert automatic reply texts for replying to the pre defined communication messages.

The SALE FUNCTION implies an application of the telecommunications system and method object of the present invention which is currently not resolved in an efficient or sufficient way by the telecommunications systems or processes known or it is not possible to deduce this from them. Therefore in order to facilitate the management of the same announcement the user will have a tool or function on their profile which grants access to a virtual template which enables the user to manage the sale of their vehicle in an automated way. The user may publish theft message or offer via the various system channels by means of a vehicle for sale symbol on their user profile publication on an internal buying sale page or telecommunication function activation of the system Sale. The transmitter may even generate a standard announcement to publish on external support such as internet advertisement portals. If the management of the sale is carried out via the mobile application the same would be capable of redirecting to the sale profile either integrated the buying selling profile from the terminal and therefore also loading the sale profile or only launching the browser by default and loading the profile .

It is possible that the user with the vehicle for sale employs the return communication function of the system SALE. Using this function when a transmitter sends a message it is possible to generate a response message for the transmitter automatically containing the web address of the sale profile or a pre defined message previously introduced into the system by the user. Be it by means of establishing a call SMS e mail or any of the channels enabled to this end the server via its notification management function after having received a message expressing the interest of any transmitter responds with an automatic reply message containing all the offer data by way of a for sale announcement text and the means or contact data that the user wishes to include a link to the profile online and even the possibility of attaching images with photos of the vehicle etc. This automatic reply message will have been previously introduced into the system by the registered user.

As mentioned above communication channels are understood to be the means used to transmit the messages from a transmitter to a receptor via the server. The receptor user is the party responsible for choosing which functions they wish to receive and the channel used for each one of these functions. Channels such as the following are used 

Likewise the telecommunications method may be implemented in the mobile terminal operating systems by means of a native application in which the entire method architecture is below an interface represented by function icons integrated in the communication terminal. This native application is designed to be implemented into last generation mobile terminal operative systems of smartphones therefore enabling the transmitter and the receptor to use it to manage the telecommunication method object of the present invention in both directions i.e. transmission and reception. This application for mobile devices makes it possible to access the web application APP P2V via smartphones and their screens.

In order to carry out the communication functions described from the mobile application APP P2V according to the example in it is equally necessary for the registration of a complete number plate country code number plate to be verified using the same or in other words for the existence of a user in a database of the system and the various notifications that the user has configured to be verified as well as the pre defined communication channels application communications and notifications managed by the mobile application web application web notification management module via SMS e mail VoIP analogue call etc.

The system will only load on the device pertaining to the transmitter who wishes to send those functions that the receptor has activated in a message to a receptor user. For example a user might choose amongst other things the following A notification communication system pre defined messages a buying sales P2V SALE system inbox where any type of message may be left terminal geo location functions etc. Likewise a search tool or engine is available in the application which enables search by number plate in the mobile application in such a way it is possible to search for a user profile using its number plate the transmitter user being shown the public page of the selected profile. This public profile will consist of that data which the user registered in the database wishes to shown on their profile and other screens with the public data of their vehicle or vehicles as well as the communication functions they have activated and the channels via which they wish to or can receive communications. Using this profile page a link to the communication method object of the present invention will be made available. In this way the communication request i.e. the transmitter sending a message may be sent in the following ways 

Once the message has been sent the operation of the method from the mobile application itself comprises the same stages as those described above for the general method shown in .

Below two examples of specific embodiments of the telecommunication method from a mobile application are described following the method described above in and with reference to the pre defined notification functions as they are the operating means used by a transmitter of the FREE TEXT function which equates to the user sending a certain text to a specific user and a transmitter carrying out the SALE function which equates to a sale notification being sent to a specific receptor provided that the receptor has enabled the possibility of receiving this kind of communication.

In both examples the user 1 wishes to communicate with the user 2 via the number plate of their vehicle E1111 AAA either to send them a free text message or to express their interest in their vehicle for sale. For this reason the user 1 starts the mobile application up on their device via the screen of the same and introduces the number plate either by means of typing it or by means of voice or using the camera OCR in the device. Once the number plate code has been introduced or recognised in the same the application requests that the database of vehicles registered in the system is consulted in order to verify whether or not this number plate has been registered in this database. The database returns the data requested mainly if the user 2 is registered and or if they are active as well as the functions and channels that said user 2 has activated in the event of the same being registered in the system. If the user 2 is registered in the system the user 1 displays the active system functions for the user 2 on the screen of their device via the mobile application and selects the function in which they are interested.

In the example in the user 1 selects the sending channel and the pre determined function FREE TEXT and writes the text to be sent whilst in the example in the user 1 selects the sending channel and the pre determined function SALE .

Subsequently the output message is sent composed of at least the following codification country code E receptor number plate 1111AAA pre defined communication function code FREE TEXT or SALE depending on the example.

Based on the configuration the receptor and the communication means the telecommunications application module and the server re send the output message to the receptor or in other words to the user 2 linked to the vehicle by the number plate 1111 AAA thereby generating a notification via the channel previously selected by the user 2.

The user 2 receives the message emitted by the user 1 for example in the example in the free text written by user 1 is received whilst in the example in the user may receive a pre defined text for example I am interested in your vehicle. Please contact me .

User 2 receives the message preferably via their mobile application installed on their mobile device to which they may or may not respond as they wish.

This mobile application may manage various communication channels such as application channel SMS channel E mail channel analogue call mobile channel and VoIP channel etc. already described above.

In addition there will be a specific channel or Application CHANNEL which operates in the following way If communication is established with the receptor via the application a notification is generated in both the mobile application pertaining to the mobile operating systems and in the web part accessing the private user area. These notifications are automatically marked as read once they have been opened and will be moved to the record only those notifications which have not been read being shown. An example of this communication process would be 

The abovementioned application implemented in the mobile terminal operating systems has as already mentioned various functionalities or characteristics such as 

The use of the telecommunication system and method described in the present invention combined with number plate recognition systems OCR involves applications which are currently not resolved in an efficient or sufficient way by known telecommunications systems or methods or it is not possible to deduce them from them. For example an internal communications system. Therefore the invention makes it possible to implement an anti theft security service or system in the telecommunications system described by means of the application of a communication protocol with the OCR number plate recognition networks both public and private which exists in any developed county. In this way once the communication function has been activated and linked in the user profile of the stolen car in an environment in which the system can exchange signals or interact with the various registration recognition systems with terminals located at different strategic points car parks motorways petrol stations toll roads etc. it is possible to articulate a control network or grid by means of which a vehicle indicated as stolen cannot drive in theory without its position being detected in this way constituting an effective anti theft system. Likewise and as a complementary means the user from whom the vehicle has been taken may convey their situation on their profile using a stolen vehicle icon which may be activated. In this way anybody can access the public data on the vehicle profile online and may communicate with the user to ask whether they can offer any information on the matter. For example if anybody has seen the car in the street and it caught their attention they would be able to immediately check by going onto the website and searching the registry to see if this vehicle is listed as stolen.

Likewise the process may include the application with systems and functions of augmented reality in such a way that all the functions of the application are built into an augmented reality function which returns all the useful information active system communication functions public data on the user profile etc. on the image of the environment which shows the terminal camera at all times.

Management of the method by means of voice control systems needed when the mobile device is being used whilst the driver is at the Wheel. The mobile application for managing by means of a voice recognition system to be able to verbally dictate all data input in addition to being able to carry out all communication functions by means of voice command.

Geo localisation functions or solutions related to system functionalities for the geo localisation of the user by means of integrating the application with the GPS function of the mobile terminal operating system smartphone . It would be possible to activate the various communication functions of the system on the map of the surrounding area in which the user is located. Other users can therefore see the respective area on the map via their GPS the pre defined communication functions of the system activated by the users via different icons shown on the virtual map. The use of the telecommunications system and method described in the present invention combined with geo positioning systems GPS implies applications which are currently not resolved in an efficient or sufficient way by the telecommunication systems or processes known about or it is not possible to deduce them from this. For example 

The invention makes it possible to implement a system and method for geolocalising parking on a surface in the telecommunication method described. Said method consists of implementing a method which makes it possible to synchronise request and demand communication functions related to parking needs using geo location GPS support in the communication system. In this way those looking for a place in a specific area of the city may transmit a request signal which would be received by those who are leaving a place in the same area. All of these communication or request signals and the signalisation are automated by default in such a way that in unfolding the map of the area in question those looking for parking will find the position of all the vehicles leaving their place and may visualise all the possible gaps that have just been freed. The method makes it possible to synchronise the demand for parking surface for a vehicle user with the offer of free spaces left by other car uses which indicate as such via the system.

Likewise the invention makes it possible to implement a function for exchanging points of view on the various vehicle users in the telecommunications method described by means of geo localisation by means of GPS system support and via the camera of the terminal. Therefore a user may select the point of view of another user who has it activated on an area map and reflect on it the EYES function and see the environment in which the same is located through their camera. By exchanging points of view between the system users it is understood that each user can access the surrounding view of another network user. Therefore in addition to implementing the service in the system a mobile device with a camera plus GPS is required. The function brings visual environment functions together with geo localisation functions to make it possible to view via the camera signal of another user in any remote place via the point of view of a second user connected to the communication function both inside the vehicle with which it is moving as though outside the vehicle. In addition the user may also connect to the signal of other devices with built in cameras such as traffic cameras car park cameras and cameras in large surfaces etc. The function makes it possible for a user amongst other useful functions to visualise directly and in remote places of traffic states car parks roads incidents or any other visual information they may be interested in.

