---

title: Systems and method of identifying and managing abusive requests
abstract: Aspects relate to categorizing requests for online resources as originating from spiders or not. Such resources are associated with respective contacts, and if a non-spider requests a resource, then a contact associated with that resource can be notified. One example method for determining whether to notify a user associated with a network resource includes identifying, via a processor, an entity making a request for a resource associated with a network address, wherein the entity has extracted the network address from a machine-readable code. The method then includes serving the resource to the entity in response to the request. The method then includes determining if request is not abusive, and only if the request is not abusive sending a notification to a user associated with the resource that the resource has been accessed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08271650&OS=08271650&RS=08271650
owner: Vizibility Inc.
number: 08271650
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120406
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 304 521 filed on 11 Nov. 2011 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 190 322 filed on 25 Jul. 2011 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 847 077 filed on Jul. 30 2010 which claims priority from and incorporates U.S. Prov. App. No. 61 350 712 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS OF HANDLING INTERNET SPIDERS filed on Jun. 2 2010 and which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 795 034 filed on Jun. 7 2010 which claims priority from and incorporates U.S. Prov. App. No. 61 236 630 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SEARCHING FORMULATING DISTRIBUTING AND MONITORING USAGE OF PREDEFINED INTERNET SEARCH QUERIES filed on Aug. 25 2009 and from U.S. Prov. App. No. 61 348 558 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SEARCHING FORMULATING DISTRIBUTING AND MONITORING USAGE OF PREDEFINED INTERNET SEARCH QUERIES filed on May 26 2010 this application also claims priority to U.S. Prov. App. No. 61 452 585 entitled SELECTION AND SHARING OF VERIFIED SEARCH RESULTS filed on Mar. 14 2011 all applications identified are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes herein.

Aspects disclosed herein relate to information searching and more particularly to systems and methods of identifying and managing abusive requests.

Internet users are increasingly finding navigating document collections to be difficult because of the increasing size of such collections. Likewise companies individuals and other organizations wishing to be found by Internet users face growing challenges with maintaining their online visibility. For example it is estimated that the World Wide Web on the Internet includes more than 11 billion pages in the publicly indexable Web across more than 110 million web sites. Consequently finding desired information in such a large collection unless the identity location or characteristics of a specific document or search target are well known can be much like looking for a needle in a haystack. The World Wide Web is a loosely interlinked collection of documents mostly text and images located on servers distributed over the Internet. Generally speaking each document has an address or Uniform Resource Locator URL in the exemplary form http www.server.net directory file.html . In that notation the http specifies the protocol by which the document is to be delivered in this case the HyperText Transport Protocol. The www.server.net specifies the name of a computer or server on which the document resides directory refers to a directory or folder on the server in which the document resides and file.html specifies the name of the file. URLs can be extremely long complex strings of machine readable code.

Many documents on the Web are in markup language e.g. HTML which allows for formatting to be applied to the document external content such as images and other multimedia data types to be introduced within the document and hotlinks or links to other documents to be placed within the document among other things. Hotlinking allows a user to navigate between documents on the Web simply by selecting an item of interest within a page. For example a Web page about reprographic technology might have a hotlink to the Xerox corporate web site. By selecting the hotlink often by clicking a marked word image or area with a pointing device such as a mouse the user s Web browser is instructed to follow the hotlink usually via a URL frequently invisible to the user associated with the hotlink and read a different document. A user cannot be expected to know or remember a URL for each and every document on the Internet or even URLs for those documents in a smaller collection of preferred documents.

Accordingly navigation assistance is not only helpful but important for practical internet usage. Such navigation assistance is typically providing via an Internet based search engine such as Google Microsoft s Bing Yahoo or the like. Accordingly when an Internet user desires to find information about a company individual or organization the Internet user will frequently turn to a search engine to locate the information. A search engine serves as an index into the content stored on the Internet.

 Google www.google.com is an example of a search engine. It operates in a similar manner to traditional keyword based search engines in that a search begins by the user s entry of one or more search terms used in a pattern matching analysis of documents on the Web. It differs from traditional keyword based search engines in that search results are ranked based on a metric of page importance which differs from the number of occurrences of the desired search terms and simple variations upon that theme . Regardless of the proprietary nature of any given search engines approach Internet users searching for companies individuals or organizations with similar characteristics i.e. name industry etc. often receive search results that are inaccurate or relate to entities other than the intended search target. For example a search for John Smith with the intention of obtaining information about a particular person by that name will return many results about different John Smith s such that the desired John Smith may not have any relevant results. In these instances the Internet user may build more complex search queries to generate more relevant results which is only possible if the Internet user possesses information that can be used as a basis for such queries.

It is understood and well documented that it is desirable for companies individuals and organizations to appear early in search results for personal financial and other reasons. Prominence in search results for a given term or terms in search engines is a form of third party validation at least in that Internet users place a higher value on entries in top search results because of their perceived relevance success and size. Therefore viewership of search results or click throughs for search results on subsequent results pages declines precipitously.

Search Engine Optimization SEO has emerged as a category of services available to operators of web sites. SEO provides for deliberately engineering prominent placement in search results by tailoring web sites to the algorithms employed by a given search engine. In addition to SEO paid search may be utilized to display an advertisement on the top pages of search results for a given search term s . SEO paid search and other optimization strategies are typically only engaged by organizations due to their complexity and cost. Individuals have fewer options to achieve optimal placement in search results.

Google Profiles is one example of a mechanism individuals can utilize to offer information specific to themselves. Google Profiles does not influence search results however and individuals with even slightly common names often find themselves in a long list with others eliminating the value of the feature. SEO paid search Google Profiles and other similar optimization strategies are reactive in that they only influence but do not control what is returned in search results. These strategies are necessary because the natural search behavior of Internet users favors implementation of less sophisticated search queries or the Internet user simply does not possess the information necessary to build a complex search query that will allow the return of appropriately focused results. When companies individuals or organizations with similar characteristics engage like optimization strategies however the differentiation gained from them diminishes and the value declines for them and Internet users alike.

Search engines employ machines known as spiders or crawlers that traverse Internet accessible directories web pages and other information in order to determine location content and otherwise index resources that are available electronically. One way that machines traverse these electronic resources is by following links from one resource to another. In some cases it may be desirable to differentiate between requests for resources generated by spiders from requests for resources generated by humans.

When a spider reaches a web site it crawls through the links available at the site following one link to another. For example a home page or index can present a page that loads when a top level domain e.g. www.vizibility.com is requested and the content of that page can be crawled by following all the links present on that home page and continuing to recurse further into subpages until all the linked pages have been viewed by the spider.

As such a web site can attempt to detect a spider by observing how machine s associated with a given IP address interacts with the links on the web site. For example by detecting how quickly links are requested by the same IP address non human site navigation can be inferred. Given the heuristic nature of determining whether a given IP address is used by a spider or shared by a group of people or the like further improvements to spider detection remain desirable.

Resources are identified with respective URLs and each resource is associated with a respective contact. URLs referencing the resources can be made available and subjected to requests. A server responsive to receiving requests for the resources can categorize a requesting entity as either a spider or not a spider and responsively notify a contact associated with the resource if the requester is not a spider. A whitelist specific to the resource can be maintained. If a requester is on the whitelist then a notification can be provided even if requesting behavior otherwise would suggest that the requester should be categorized as a spider. Requests can be generated by mobile devices that scan QR codes. Resources can comprise profiles that can be provided to such mobile devices and used to populate contact managers on such mobile devices.

One embodiment for determining whether to notify a user associated with a network resource includes identifying via a processor an entity making a request for a resource associated with a network address wherein the entity has extracted the network address from a machine readable code. The method then includes serving the resource to the entity in response to the request. The method then includes determining if request is not abusive and only if the request is not abusive sending a notification to a user associated with the resource that the resource has been accessed.

As set forth above an Internet site can have a number of pages that reference each other or which otherwise have a browsable hierarchy or structure that makes page content available to those who browse to the site. In some examples herein terms including spidering and crawling are used as examples of abusive data requests and more generally herein requests for resources e.g. resources identified by respective URLs can be identified as originating from abusive or unabusive requesters. As will become clearer from the disclosure a variety of decisions can be undertaken in order to determine whether a given source of a request is to be categorized as an abusive requester or an unabusive requester with one criterion being whether or not the requester appears to be exhibiting behaviors that are deemed to be those of a web crawler Some example heuristics for categorizing requesters are explained however actions taken in response thereto are also described herein and which can be taken independently of how the categorization was performed.

In one approach a network accessible resource has a number of resources that can be accessed e.g. an Internet site can have a number of pages that each are referenced by a different URL . However those pages or resources may be largely without references to each other or be referenced by a page which would allow navigation to them.

For example browsing to a top level domain of the site having the resources would not provide an index or other browsable structure or otherwise contain linkages to or among those URLs. Therefore a typical spider visiting such a site would not be presented with an expected browsable site. Such a site generally would be considered less useful for most applications or services than a typical approach to site construction at least because users navigating to the home page would not be presented with the content available or a way to navigate among the content. Such a structure is exemplary and not required in that a content structure also can be provided in addition to the structure described herein as an example implementation.

In one approach URLs referencing the content available at the domain are used on other domains that also can serve content and themselves be visited by spiders. The presence of these URLs instances of such URLs on those different domains allows those URLs to be followed by spiders crawling links on those domains. When any of the URLs are followed the spiders will request the resource identified by that URL from the domain. Where a plurality of such URLs are available on one or more other domains multiple different URLs may be requested in a relatively short period of time.

In one example each URL can reference a pre defined query or profile for a person or product and so on and that URL can be used on any number of other web pages to reference that pre defined query. For example such URLs can be used on social networking sites. If a number of different people have such URLs then a spider crawling such a social network site will encounter and follow a number of these different links. Similarly a spider crawling a number of different web pages may encounter the same URL on a number of pages and follow that URL repeatedly. For example where a number of pages relate to a particular person then a number of those pages may also have the URL referencing the pre defined query for that person.

As such the URLs referencing the same domain or an interconnected intercommunicating set of domains can operate to attract spiders in such a way that their behavior can be viewed more globally than only what behavior they exhibit while crawling a single domain. In one implementation the distribution of these URLs is accomplished by providing a capability for users to create search queries that are referenced by URLs and then allowing those users to embed those URLs in a variety of web resources that they control. The following description provides further examples and other information concerning such implementations and approaches.

Search query provider can be used by an entity e.g. a person to obtain a definition of a search query. A link or referenced to the query definition can be distributed to third parties for use in obtaining information about a particular subject e.g. the person who created the pre defined query an organization object place concept product service event or the like . Because the query is defined prior to the time that it is used typically by an entity other than an entity that is intended to use the query to obtain the information such a search query can be called a pre search query in that it is defined before a time when it is used by a person or entity to search for the topic or subject matter defined by the query e.g. the query can be defined by one party and then distributed to another party that uses it .

In other words the query is defined by a process performed prior to distribution of the query or references to the query for use in searching. Typically the query is defined with a view to tailoring the results that are returned from the query to a desired subject as will be described below. For example the query can be formed during a process performed in a machine which may interact with a person. In one example the process can be performed to define a query that will return search results about a selected person and in such a case the person intended to be the subject of the query may perform the process. In another example if the query is intended to be for a product then a marketing employee of a company producing or selling the product may initiate or engage in the query formation process for that product. To be clear a pre search query is not confined to being used only for people. Therefore creation of a pre search query for a person as in the principal examples herein is for ease and clarity of explanation and not by way of limitation.

Returning to search query provider an example composition of search query provider includes a search engine interface which interfaces with one or more search engines a search engine is depicted such as through respective Application Programming Interfaces APIs provided by the search engines an API for search engine is depicted . search query provider also has a store of scripts e.g. javascripts and UI templates which as will be described below are for use in configuring a user interface located at a browser which can be used in this example for creating a pre search query such scripts also can be run on other devices such as on server resources . An account creation server also is provided and can include information gathering functionality that can be implemented through the UI on the browser.

A link server is provided to accept requests for a resource identified by a link e.g. a link made available on a web resource e.g. a page which can be selected or otherwise activated by a request source which is accessing web resource . An analytics engine communicates with link server and operates to obtain and analyze information available from such linking activities. In a particular example a pre search query can be referenced by link such that when link is activated e.g. by clicking on a visual depiction of the link in a page served by web resource to request source information about request source such as information about a browser at request source an IP address operating system and so on can be obtained.

As will be described further below various constituent elements of search query provider communicate with each other in order to perform query definition steps delineated in the examples that follow. For example account creation server can store profile information in profile storage profiles . Also account creation server can update link information on link server e.g. to publish a new link that can be used or otherwise distributed . Similarly account creation server may communicate with search engine interface for providing trial queries to be submitted to search engine and to receive results returned responsive to those queries.

Because a given URL can be replicated a number of times and located on any number of different web properties or domains each replication of the URL also can be referred to as an instance of that URL. In one aspect the distribution of a number of instances of a given URL on different resources within a domain or across a number of different domains can be followed by spiders to a domain referenced in those URL instances. For example a social networking site can have a number of pages resources maintained by a number of distinct members of the site. Each member can have a URL referencing a resource on a first domain other than the domain hosting the social networking site for example each member can have a URL referencing a pre defined search query definition located on a resource at the first domain.

As such the enumerated links and exemplify a situation where a number of links e.g. Uniform Resource Locations URLs are defined and distributed to a plurality of different locations on the Internet or an internet . These URLs link to resources available at one or more domains that can collect or otherwise reference information about requests that are made for the resources referenced by the links. In a more particular example each link and can refer to a pre defined search query created to produce search results for a person at a pre selected search engine.

In one particular application a person or entity can create a pre search query using Internet accessible pre search query search query provider which can assist in creating a search query for a particular search engine that returns results that emphasize a certain concept topic or are focused on a particular person or otherwise disambiguate search results. For example a person can create a pre search query for himself such that submitting that pre search query to a search engine will return results available from the Internet that are relevant to that person and which also can emphasize selected aspects of those results and exclude confusingly similar names.

Continuing with this example application a definition of a pre search query stored at link server can be referenced by a URL e.g. any of links and . Activating such link can cause a redirection to the search engine and the submission of the pre search query to the search engine. In another example usage of the link can return the linked definition and a requester can submit the query definition to the search engine and obtain the results.

As may be discerned pre search queries can be created by an individual or an entity to allow others to be informed quickly and easily about a topic product person or organization for example. As such the creator of a given pre search query may be interested in understanding when and by whom the pre search query has been used. For example an e mail or Short Message System SMS message may be sent to the creator of a given pre search query responsive to activation of a link to the query. However if such a notification system is to be implemented creators of such pre search queries may desire not to be notified when Internet spiders request the pre search query while crawling a page on which a link to the query appears. Therefore an approach to disambiguating between requests by humans or other entities of interest and spiders can be useful.

To summarize the links and represent what could be hundreds thousands tens or even hundreds of thousands of instances of the same link and different links. For example a number of instances of a link pointing to one pre search query can be found at different locations on the Internet even as a number of links pointing to other pre search queries also can be found on the Internet. For example a user can have a Facebook page and a LinkedIn page on which instances of the same URL appear. Similarly there are a number of users of Facebook and LinkedIn each may have a distinct URL pointing to their respective pre search query.

The following disclosure relates to example approaches to differentiating between spiders and requests that would generally be considered by most users to be more interesting e.g. requests initiated by humans and not spiders .

In one example a categorization of the requesting entity as an abusive or an abusive requester is undertaken. Such process can include obtaining identifying information such as an IP address for the requester and using such information or a portion thereof to lookup whitelist entries associated with the URL requested. Some of these whitelist entries can be common among all and or subsets of URLs others can be unique to that particular URL. The IP can be checked for inclusion in a blacklist and if so then a blacklist maintenance process can be invoked the resource may not be served and a contact associated with the entity may not be notified. In the example depicted here even a blacklisted entity may be able to obtain at least some requested information however this decision is implementation specific and those of ordinary skill may determine whether or not to condition information delivery on absence from a blacklist or whether to even include a blacklist check.

If the IP address is not on the blacklist then a check concerning whether behavior of the requesting entity is indicative of a spider can be made. If behavior is not considered spiderlike then a contact can be notified of the request. If behavior is spiderlike then a check as to whether the IP address is found on a whitelist can be made. If the IP is found in a whitelist entry then the contact can be notified . If the requester is not a spider or is on the whitelist then it can be treated as non abusive . If the IP is not on the whitelist and is categorized as a spider then the method can stop rather than notifying a contact of the request.

In addition to the notification determination process which broadly speaking is conditioned on whether or not a given requester is categorized as an abusive requester which can be a decision that is inclusive of whether or not the requester is on a whitelist a determination concerning whether to serve the resource or not can be made or in some cases determining whether to serve a particular resource based on a categorization of the requester as abusive or not. If a given request originated from a QR code determination and if the request is determined to be from an abusive requester then the resource identified by the QR code is not provided. In one implementation search results pre selected or search results returned according to a pre defined search query can be returned . If the requester is not abusive then a profile with more personal information can be returned . In some implementations a profile can be referenced by a URL encoded in a QR code while a pre defined query or pre selected search results or both can be referenced by a plaintext easy to use URL. Thus a given contact can include both a short human readable URL that points to one set of information such as a subset of publicly available information and a resource referenced by a URL encoded in a QR code. These resources can be treated differently for the sake of abusive requesters in that information on the profile may not be publicly available and therefor more sensitive. As such it is to be understood that example implementations can include two major component operations one of which is determining whether or not to notify a contact associated with an online resource or not in response to a particular request for that online resource. The other is that depending on the nature of the source of the request and the resource the resource may or may not be shared or some limited form of the resource may be shared. In one example a resource includes a pre search query pre selected search results and profile information and depending on whether or not a given requester is determined abusive or not some such information may be shared while other such information is not. In some instances such information is divided among a plurality of resources and an abusive requester may be denied access to a resource that is identified by a complex URL which can be encoded in a QR code. In one example QR codes can be placed on tangible items such as resumes or business cards. In summary of some aspects a QR code can include a code with a complicated network resource identifier e.g. a complicated URL a complicated URL including URLs such as URLs that would not be easily remembered by an average person . Such resource identifier can link to a profile containing private information. In order to reduce a chance of unauthorized access to this private information by spiders for example such as a spider crawling a QR code placed by a user on a web site a process to distinguish between human authorized users and spiders is implemented. Spiders can be provided publicly available information such as search results returned by a predefined query while a device operated by a human to scan a QR code such as a QR code on a business card can be provided the private profile information and other information such as the publicly available information.

Now turning to an example of a blacklist maintenance process is depicted and described below. As described with respect to requests for resources identified by different URLs one example is multiple URLs but some aspects herein also can be practiced based on requests for a single URL can be received and address information for the requesters is collected . A group of data gathering elements can be implemented for example a determination of a number of different URLs that are requested by the same IP can be made.

Additionally a determination of a number of times a URL is requested by the same IP also can be made. Still further a frequency of requests for one or more URL instances by the same IP can be determined . For example a requester can cycle through a number of URLs at an abnormally rapid pace while a person may also select a number of different URL s but at a slower pace. By particular example a recruiter firm may have a limited number of IP addresses and requests sourced from the firm may by simple numerosity be indicative of a spider but a pattern of the requests may indicate differently. Also request patterns and behavior of some requesters can be compared with that of other requesters in order to gather information about whether a given IP address is used by a spider.

With information gathered a determination as to whether a given IP address is used by a spider is made . The determination can be a trinary decision where the request behavior indicates a strong likelihood that the IP is used by a spider and that decision can result in blacklisting while if the behavior is suspicious but not strongly correlated with spider behavior the IP can be placed on a watch list for review and if the behavior does not appear correlated with spider type behavior then the IP address can be added to a whitelist . Whitelist also can be maintained by manual review. For example certain entities may source an abnormally high number of requests from persons or otherwise generate requests that are of interest to owners of the URLs. As such it remains desirable to inform the owners when such requests are made. Therefore known entities with these characteristics can be added to the whitelist. For example employment agencies and recruiters can be added to the whitelist and such manually added entries would take precedence over the automatic analysis in most situations. Further the whitelist can be consulted for a given IP prior to determination in some implementations.

The whitelist referenced in response to receiving a request for a given resource e.g. when a request for a particular URL is received can be personal or specific to that URL. A portion of the whitelist can be common among a group of URLS among all the URLs while a respective portion can be specific to each URL. For example in one implementation each URL references a resource associated with particular contact information and in one example the contact information can be associated with an entity that curates the resource associated with the URL. For example a person can maintain a profile which is referenced by a particular URL. A whitelist for that particular URL can have entries that are specific to that URL or are otherwise selected by or maintained by the person who maintains the profile. For example IP addresses associated with the person who maintains the profile can be added to the whitelist for that profile URL combination. So in a particular example situation if a person activates their URL a number of times from his person computer or mobile device these activities might be considered spidering behavior according to this disclosure. However where these IP addresses or more generally identifying information for these devices has been added to a whitelist specific for this person the person is still notified that their URL has been accessed.

As such in one implementation some entries of a whitelist may be shared among all URLs some entries may be associated with particular classes of users and some entries may be unique to respective users. Some entries may be maintained or populated by a system process and other entries of specific whitelists may be populated or maintained by users associated with respective profiles linked to those whitelists. The system may establish default whitelist entries which can be overridden by users according to their particular circumstances.

However it may remain desirable to perform determinations according to the exemplary determinations and regardless whether a requester IP is on the whitelist or not. For example IP addresses may end up being used by different entities over time such that it may be desirable to watch for changes in behavior that may require review to be conducted again or blacklisting to be considered again . In some examples three requests by the same IP address on the same URL from any number of instances of that URL causes determination to flag the IP address for review which also can be viewed as a quarantine list while 8 clicks in 24 hours causes the IP address to be blacklisted . Similarly the same IP address requesting 20 different links with a relatively small period of time for example 24 hours or 12 hours triggers review or quarantining and if 30 more requests originate from that IP within a follow on period of time then the IP is blacklisted . By further example 40 or 50 requests for any combination of URL instances would result in blacklisting . The concept is extensible to IP address ranges that have common ownership or another reason why their behavior appears to be a federated or distributed spidering system. By having a larger number of links in the system many of which may be concentrated on different pages of social networking sites a large amount of request information can be collected and used to determine whether a given IP address is being used for crawling spidering.

Further a blacklist review process can be conducted such as on a schedule. In one example the blacklist is reviewed and entries that have not had recent activity are removed from the blacklist. In one approach if spidering activity is not observed for a period of time e.g. 3 days 5 days 10 days for an IP address on the blacklist that IP can be moved to a quarantine list and after a further period of time elapses e.g. 3 days 5 days 10 days the IP can be removed from the quarantine. Thus the lists can be more dynamic than typical static lists of IP addresses from which spidering activity was once detected. Preferably however spiders are added to the quarantine and blacklists quicker than they are removed.

In some aspects an API can be provided by which an entity such as a third party can request information about whether a given IP address is considered a spider. A list also can be published with such information.

These examples specifically identify a QR code as an example of a machine readable code that can be used according to the aspects presented. However implementations are not limited to using QR codes but rather any kind of machine readable representation of a code can be used. For example a bar code can be used to encode a network resource locator. Other examples include high capacity color barcodes HCCB .

One embodiment for determining whether to notify a user associated with a network resource includes identifying via a processor an entity making a request for a resource associated with a network address wherein the entity has extracted the network address from a machine readable code. Some examples of machine readable codes include a QR code a Microsoft TAG a matrix bar code a wireless near field communication signal a RFID signal a Bluetooth signal a short range wireless signal and a uniquely identifiable image. This list is not exhaustive and other mediums capable of carrying a machine readable code can be used. The method then includes serving the resource to the entity in response to the request. In this embodiment the resource is served to the entity regardless of any abusive nature of the request because the request includes a network resource which was extracted from a machine readable code. The method then includes determining if request is not abusive and only if the request is not abusive sending a notification to a user associated with the resource that the resource has been accessed.

Some example methods for determining if a request is abusive by determining that a number of requests made by the entity during a predefined period of time is below a first predefined threshold number of requests determining that a number of requests made by the entity from a predefined geo region is below a second predefined threshold number of requests and determining that a number of requests made by the entity during a predefined date and time is below a third predefined threshold number of requests.

As described above determining that a request is abusive can include categorizing the entity as a spider temporarily or permanently to determine whether to activate a notification routine for a use associated with a requested network resource. Also as described above the notification routine can consider whether the requesting entity is on a white list and always notify the user associated with the network resource of each request from the entity.

Example computer system may include a host Central Processing Unit CPU which may be implemented as a semiconductor containing one or more distinct microprocessor units commonly called cores to indicate distinctness but yet integration on a common substrate. Modern processors typically comprise multiple cores such as 2 4 6 8 12 or more cores. Host CPU also can be implemented with a plurality of physically separate microprocessor units disposed in separate sockets. Host CPU communicates with a chipset which typically includes memory bus logic and other interfaces to other functionality such as an expansion bus for supporting I O such as network traffic to and from network interface s mass storage e.g. hard drives as well as peripherals such as those that can be provided for a user interface . Example of such peripherals include a keyboard serial I O a mouse voice recognition inputs touch screen inputs and so on.

Chipset also may support connection of a display and therefore may include graphics logic for rendering content to be displayed. Such graphics logic may use main memory as video memory or a separate video memory may be provided. Where system is used for implementing end user computers a display is more likely to be included. Frequently if system is functioning as a server a display would not be provided.

Of course the example system is provided by way of example and not limitation as to what kinds of devices may be used in implementing aspects disclosed herein. Those of ordinary skill in the art may adapt the disclosures presented herein for use with a variety of devices such as smartphones tablet computers laptops and so on which may be implemented using components that are more or less integrated than those depicted herein and which may include more functionality or fewer functions than what is depicted in this example.

The separate identification of these components does not imply that the components are implemented separately. Also the usage of certain programming techniques and paradigms are by way of example rather than limitation and a person of ordinary skill in the art can provide equivalent approaches in providing embodiments according to these disclosures.

Although illustrated embodiments of the present invention has been described it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be made by one of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope of these disclosures.

