---

title: Alternative hardware and software configuration for near field communication
abstract: A system on a mobile phone for configuring a secure partition in a trusted security zone is provided. The system comprises a processor and a near field communication transceiver. The processor executes virtualization software and comprises a first virtual processor and a second virtual processor, where the second virtual processor comprises the trusted security zone and the secure partition resides in the trusted security zone. The first virtual processor comprises an application which utilizes the secure partition in the trusted security zone. The second virtual processor comprises an application stored in the trusted security zone, where the application couples the near field communication transceiver to the secure partition residing in the trusted security zone and where the application enables run-time execution in the trusted security zone based on the receiving a signal from the near field communication transceiver.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08504097&OS=08504097&RS=08504097
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08504097
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120503
---
Near field communication NFC refers to short range wireless radio communication between two devices typically occurring over distances no more than a few centimeters. NFC radio communication may be used for financial transactions such as completing a payment transaction from a mobile phone encapsulating an electronic credit card and or debit card to a point of sale POS terminal. NFC radio communication may be used to provide personal identification and or to electronically access physical spaces for example to provide a student identification an employee identification a medical identification to activate a badge reader to unlock an entry door to access a hotel room to access a rental car. NFC radio communication may be used for communicating content such as reading explanatory information from an NFC tag coupled to a placard in a museum or in a retail display.

A secure element SE is a combination of hardware software interfaces and protocols that enable the secure storage and usage of credentials for payments authentication and other services. Secure elements promote security in these service processes. Secure elements typically reside on an embedded hardware semiconductor chip in a mobile device in a removable memory card that holds an embedded chip which can be used as a secure partition and in a universal integrated circuit card UICC which is typically used to authenticate a mobile device to a mobile network.

In an embodiment a system on a mobile phone for configuring a secure partition in a trusted security zone is disclosed. The system comprises a processor and a near field communication transceiver. The processor executes virtualization software and comprises a first virtual processor and a second virtual processor where the second virtual processor comprises the trusted security zone and the secure partition resides in the trusted security zone. The first virtual processor comprises an application which utilizes the secure partition in the trusted security zone. The second virtual processor comprises an application stored in the trusted security zone where the application couples the near field communication transceiver to the secure partition residing in the trusted security zone and where the application enables run time execution in the trusted security zone based on the receiving a signal from the near field communication transceiver.

In an embodiment a method of secure partition configuration in a trusted security zone on a mobile device is disclosed. The method comprises selecting in a first application on a mobile device a secure partition from a plurality of secure partitions concurrently residing in the trusted security zone on the mobile device. The selection of the secure partition from the first application is sent to a second application where the second application is stored in the trusted security zone on the mobile device. A near field communication transceiver in the mobile device is coupled to the selected secure partition where the second application executes to perform the coupling and where the secure partition hardware and software reside on the processor of the mobile device in the trusted security zone. A wireless link between the near field communication transceiver in the mobile device and an external near field communication device is established where the wireless link enables communication between the selected secure partition and the external near field communication device.

In an embodiment a system on a mobile phone for configuring a secure partition in a trusted security zone is disclosed. The system comprises a processor and a near field communication receiver. The processor executes virtualization software and comprises a plurality of processing cores a first virtual processor and a second virtual processor where the second virtual processor comprises the trusted security zone. The first virtual processor comprises an application which utilizes the secure partition in the trusted security zone. The second virtual processor comprises an application stored in the trusted security zone where the application couples the near field communication transceiver to the secure partition residing in the trusted security zone via a first processing core of the plurality of processing cores.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Near field communication NFC allows for transactions data exchange and wireless connections between two devices in proximity to each other. Technology based on near field communication specifications may be used in a mobile phone or similar mobile device to enable users to make mobile payments with the mobile phone. A secure element SE component in the mobile phone is designed to only allow trusted programs on the secure element itself access to the data and payment credentials stored therein. The secure element and the near field communication transceiver are typically coupled to accommodate the timing specifications for initiating a near field communication session and to ensure the security of data for mobile financial transactions. Due to this linked nature of the secure element and the near field communication transceiver in the mobile phone in the past only one secure element has commonly been supported in the mobile phone. Furthermore the secure element typically resides on a separate hardware chip within the mobile phone providing security through the software and hardware architecture of the secure element chip.

The present disclosure teaches a system and method for a secure partition configuration in a trusted security zone on the mobile phone. The system provides the ability to utilize a trusted security zone architecture built into the main processor chipset of the mobile phone to implement the secure element functionality without the separate secure element chip.

Hardware logic ensures that no secure partition resources can be accessed by the normal partition components or applications. In an embodiment isolation of normal partition components and or applications may be provided by excluding the processor or processors associated with the normal partition from asserting the address or addresses needed to access secure partition resources for example requiring a bit be asserted to read or write a data bus that the normal world processor or processors are unable to assert. In an embodiment while the trust zone is executing the normal partition components may be excluded from accessing any input output peripherals such as keyboards touchscreens pushbuttons interface ports sensors radio transceivers or transducers. While the trust zone is executing the normal partition components may be excluded from accessing an accelerometer a global positioning system GPS receiver a disk drive reader writer. A dedicated secure partition operating system runs in a virtual processor separate from the normal partition operating system that likewise executes in its own virtual processor. Users may install applications on the mobile device which may execute in the normal partition operating system described above. The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system for the secure partition that is installed by the mobile device manufacturer or vendor and users are not able to install new applications in or alter the contents of the trusted security zone.

The trusted security zone may be implemented by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile device to exist in a secure subsystem which is not accessible to components outside the secure subsystem. The trusted security zone runs a dedicated secure operating system in a virtual processor separate from the primary mobile device operating system that likewise executes in its own virtual processor. The secure operating system is not accessible to the mobile device users. Placing the trusted security zone in the secure partition and restricting access from the primary mobile device operating system protects against software and basic hardware attacks.

The trusted security zone allows not only simplified hardware design through the elimination of the secure element chip but greater flexibility in the configuration and use of the secure partition. Typically a single secure element is supported on a mobile phone due to the security chain required to initialize the secure element chip where only the original provider of the secure key has access and control over the secure partition. Utilizing the trusted security zone to provide the secure element functionality allows the mobile phone manufacturer or service provider to allocate the necessary processor and memory resources to support multiple secure partitions while still maintaining the security chain required for mobile financial services and other secure transactions. Additionally standards based protocols may be used to securely add new secure partitions configure existing secure partitions and wipe or delete secure partitions no longer in use via wireless over the air updates.

The near field communication transceiver may interface with the secure partitions through a direct connection to a hardware port on the mobile device processor. To couple the trusted security zone to the near field communication transceiver while preventing access to the data outside of the trusted security zone the near field communication transceiver may be coupled to the hardware port on the mobile device processor. When applications are running in the trusted security zone the hardware port is not accessible outside of the trusted security zone. Applications running in the trusted security zone execute at run time to accept the data on the hardware port authenticate access to the secure partition and deliver the data to the secure partition. Secure partitions provide the secure storage for data and programs for implementing mobile financial services. Programs in the secure partition execute to process the data and communicate back to the near field communication transceiver to complete the transaction. Supported services may include mobile banking and payment services electronic ticketing electronic identification and other wireless mobile transactions needing secure interfaces.

In an embodiment a trusted security zone provides chipsets with a hardware root of trust a secure execution environment for applications and secure access to peripherals. A hardware root of trust means the chipset should only execute programs intended by the device manufacturer or vendor and resists software and physical attacks and therefore remains trusted to provide the intended level of security. The chipset architecture is designed to promote a programmable environment that allows the confidentiality and integrity of assets to be protected from specific attacks. Trusted security zone capabilities are becoming mainstream features in mobile device chipsets. Providing the trusted security zone in the main mobile device chipset and protecting the hardware root of trust removes the need for separate secure hardware to authenticate the device or user. To ensure the integrity of the applications requiring trusted data such as a mobile financial services application the trusted security zone also provides the secure execution environment where only trusted applications can operate safe from attacks. Security is further promoted by restricting access of non trusted applications to peripherals such as data inputs and data outputs while a trusted application is running in the secure execution environment.

A complete Trusted Execution Environment TEE may be implemented through the use of the trusted security zone hardware and software architecture. The Trusted Execution Environment is an execution environment that is parallel to the execution environment of the main mobile device operating system. Through standardization of application programming interfaces APIs the Trusted Execution Environment becomes a place to which scalable deployment of secure services can be targeted. A device which has a chipset that has a Trusted Execution Environment on it may exist in a trusted services environment where devices in the trusted services environment are trusted and protected against attacks. The Trusted Execution Environment can be implemented on mobile phones and tablets as well as extending to other trusted devices such as sensors medical devices point of sale terminals industrial automation handheld terminals automotive etc.

The trusted security zone may be implemented by partitioning all of the hardware and software resources of the mobile device into two partitions a secure partition and a normal partition. In some contexts the secure partition may be referred to as a secure world or a secure execution world and the normal partition may be referred to as a non secure world or a non secure execution world. Placing sensitive resources in the secure partition can protect against possible attacks on those resources. For example resources such as trusted software applications may run in the secure partition and have access to hardware peripherals such as a touchscreen or a secure location in memory. Less secure peripherals such as wireless radios may be disabled completely while the secure partition is being accessed while other peripherals may only be accessed from the secure partition. While the secure partition is being accessed through the Trusted Execution Environment the main mobile operating system in the normal partition is suspended and applications in the normal partition are prevented from accessing the secure peripherals and data. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from breaking the trust of the device.

The trusted security zone may be implemented by partitioning the hardware and software resources to exist in a secure subsystem which is not accessible to components outside the secure subsystem. The trusted security zone is built into the processor architecture through hardware logic present in the trusted security zone which enables a perimeter boundary between the secure partition and the normal partition. Software architecture to support the secure partition may be provided through a dedicated secure kernel running trusted applications. Trusted applications are independent secure applications which can be accessed by normal applications through an application programming interface in the Trusted Execution Environment on a chipset that utilizes the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the normal partition applications may run on a first virtual processor and the secure partition applications run on a second virtual processor. Both virtual processors may run on a single physical processor executing in a time sliced fashion removing the need for a dedicated physical security processor. Time sliced execution comprises switching contexts between the two virtual processors to share processor resources based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions. The context of the currently running virtual processor is saved the context of the virtual processor being switched to is restored and processing is restarted in the restored virtual processor. Time sliced execution protects the trusted security zone by stopping the execution of the normal partition while the secure partition is executing.

The two virtual processors may context switch via a processor mode called monitor mode when changing the currently running virtual processor. The mechanisms by which the processor can enter monitor mode from the normal partition are tightly controlled. The entry to monitor mode can be triggered by software executing a dedicated instruction the Secure Monitor Call SMC instruction or by a subset of the hardware exception mechanisms such as hardware interrupts which can be configured to cause the processor to switch into monitor mode. The software that executes within monitor mode then saves the context of the running virtual processor and switches to the secure virtual processor.

The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system that is not accessible to the mobile device users. For security purposes the trusted security zone is not open to users for installing applications which means users do not have access to install applications in the trusted security zone. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from executing powerful instructions reserved to the trusted security zone and thus preserves the trust of the device. The security of the system is achieved at least in part by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile phone so they exist in one of two partitions the secure partition for the security subsystem and the normal partition for everything else. Placing the trusted security zone in the secure partition and restricting access from the normal partition protects against software and basic hardware attacks.

Turning now to a system on a mobile phone for configuring a secure partition in a trusted security zone is described. The system comprises mobile phone comprising a processor and a near field communication transceiver . The processor executes virtualization software and comprises a first virtual processor and a second virtual processor where the second virtual processor comprises the trusted security zone and a secure partition resides in the trusted security zone. The first virtual processor executes an application which utilizes the secure partition in the trusted security zone. The second virtual processor comprises an application stored in a trusted security zone where the application enables run time execution in the trusted security zone based on receiving a signal from the near field communication transceiver .

The near field communication transceiver allows for secure transactions data exchange and wireless connections with other near field communication devices such as a contactless point of sale terminal or identification reader enabling communication with devices in close proximity. The secure partition comprises data and programs in the trusted security zone designed to protect the data from access by non secure programs as well as hacking attacks and malware programs. The secure partition may store credentials and data used for mobile financial services identification documents and electronic ticketing accessible only to trusted programs stored on the secure partition itself.

In an embodiment the application couples the near field communication transceiver to the secure partition residing in the trusted security zone. For example the first application may be an electronic wallet application which utilizes the secure partition to view account information for a credit card to be used for a mobile payment. The application receives the selection and couples the selected secure partition to the near field communication transceiver . The mobile phone is now ready to establish a near field communication link with an external device such as a contactless point of sale terminal and make a secure mobile payment using the credit card credentials from the selected secure partition .

In an embodiment the trusted security zone utilizes security extensions implemented in a System on Chip SoC architecture. A system on chip is an integrated circuit IC that integrates all components of a computer or other electronic system into a single chip. The system on chip architecture may be implemented using digital signal processors DSPs or a reduced instruction set computer RISC architecture such as an Advanced Reduced Instruction Set Computer Machine ARM architecture. ARM processors run rich operating systems and applications while providing a low power design suitable for high performance but power efficient mobile phones. The trusted security zone technology is tightly integrated with the ARM processor in a system wide approach to security suitable for applications such as secure mobile payments. The trusted security zone is built into the processor architecture and may be provided through a dedicated secure kernel running independent secure applications which can be accessed by normal applications through the trusted security zone application programming interface API .

In an embodiment the first virtual processor and the second virtual processor execute in a time sliced fashion. The security of the system is achieved by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile phone so they exist in one of two worlds a normal world running on the first virtual processor and the secure world running on the second virtual processor. Both virtual processors may run on a single physical processor to safely and efficiently execute code in a time sliced fashion removing the need for a dedicated physical security processor. Time sliced execution comprises switching contexts between the two virtual processors to share processor resources based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions. The state of the currently running virtual processor is saved and the state of the virtual processor that is being switched to is restored and processing is resumed in the restored virtual processor.

In an embodiment coupling the near field communication transceiver to the selected secure partition comprises coupling the near field communication transceiver to a hardware port of the processor where the hardware port is monitored by the application for interfacing with the secure partition. The near field communication transceiver is coupled to the hardware port of the processor via the Single Wire Protocol creating a secure well defined data path between the near field communication transceiver and the processor . The second application executes on the processor in the trusted security zone to monitor the hardware port and transfer the received data to the secure partition in the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the application executes at the ring protection level which provides the most privileges and most direct interaction with the physical hardware. Hierarchical protection domains or rings are a mechanism to provide fault tolerance and security in software architecture. A protection ring is one of two or more hierarchical levels of privilege within the computer operating system with gating access between rings providing security by preventing programs from one ring from misusing resources intended for programs in another. Ring is typically reserved for kernel code and device drivers and executing the application at ring allows it to directly access the hardware port on the processor to receive data from the near field communication transceiver while protecting the data from being accessed by programs with lower privilege.

In an embodiment the system further comprises a plurality of secure partitions residing in the trusted security zone. Providing multiple secure partitions in the trusted security zone allows for secure data from different sources and for disparate uses to be maintained on the mobile phone. For example there may be a secure partition containing data including credit card information to support a mobile banking application another secure partition supporting a mobile ticketing application and a third secure partition with student identification information. Each individual secure partition retains the secure storage and execution environment to support their respective services while maintaining the security chain required by the service providers.

In an embodiment the application stored in the trusted security zone couples the near field communication transceiver to a second secure partition based on receiving a selection of the second secure partition from the application stored in the first virtual processor. Having a plurality of secure partitions provides the ability to have multiple secure mobile services on a single mobile phone. Because of timing constraints involved in mobile financial transactions utilizing near field communications it may be desirable that the secure partition be coupled to the near field communications transceiver prior to beginning a transaction. The application in the first virtual processor for example a mobile wallet application sends a selection of a credit card whose confidential information is located in the second secure partition of the plurality of secure partitions to the application in the trusted security zone. The confidential credit card information may include the credit card number as well as secure credentials for encryption signature verification and off card authentication. The application then couples the second secure partition to the near field communication transceiver and the credit card information stored in the second secure partition will be used in the subsequent mobile financial transaction.

In an embodiment the system further promotes configuring the secure partition residing in the trusted security zone using Open Mobile Alliance OMA standards. The Open Mobile Alliance is a standards body which develops open standards such as specifications for provisioning device synchronization device management instant messaging and multimedia messaging for the mobile phone industry. Utilizing these same standards and specifications to configure the secure partition provides a known interface and mechanism for over the air support of the secure partition for service providers. The Open Mobile Alliance specifications allow secure wireless access to the secure partition by the service provider. Example uses may be changing the configuration of the secure partition provisioning additional secure partitions providing new software and updates to the secure partition and deleting the contents of the secure partition in the event of a lost credit card or closed band account.

Turning now to a method of secure partition configuration in a trusted security zone on a mobile phone is described. At block a secure partition is selected in a first application on a mobile phone from a plurality of secure partitions concurrently residing in the trusted security zone on the mobile phone. The first application may utilize the selected secure partition to perform its functionality such as a banking application accessing the secure partition to display balance information to the mobile phone user. At block the selection of the secure partition from the first application is sent to a second application where the second application is stored in the trusted security zone on the mobile phone . The second application in the trusted security zone may interface directly with the selected secure partition whereas the first application residing in the normal application space interfaces with the secure partition through other trusted applications.

At block a near field communication transceiver in the mobile phone is coupled to the selected secure partition where the second application executes to perform the coupling and where the secure partition hardware and software reside on the processor of the mobile phone in the trusted security zone. The second application monitors a hardware port on the processor of the mobile phone and sends data received to the selected secure partition thus coupling the selected secure partition to the near field communication transceiver . Because the second application resides in the trusted security zone it can support direct interaction with the secure partitions without impeding the security chain required by mobile financial services standards.

At block a wireless link is established between the near field communication transceiver in the mobile device and an external near field communication device where the wireless link enables communication between the selected secure partition and the external near field communication device. The coupling of the selected secure partition and the near field communication transceiver in the mobile device allows for the communication path to the external near field communication device. To accommodate the timing specifications for initiating a near field communication session this coupling is performed prior to establishing the wireless link with the external near field communications device. Once the wireless link is established communication between the selected secure partition and the external near field communication device is enabled.

In an embodiment the first application on the mobile phone is an electronic wallet application and the selected secure partition contains credentials which may be used for payments authentication and other mobile financial services. An electronic wallet application allows users to make electronic commerce transactions quickly and securely utilizing stored credentials and financial information on the mobile phone . The credentials enabling the mobile financial services are stored in the selected secure partition and the electronic wallet application has appropriate access rights to initiate the selection through the second application in the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the trusted security zone runs a separate operating system that is not accessible to the mobile phone users. The security of the system is achieved by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile phone so they exist in one of two environments the secure environment for the security subsystem and the normal environment for everything else. Hardware logic ensures that no secure environment resources can be accessed by the normal environment components. A dedicated secure environment operating system runs in a virtual processor separate from the normal environment operating system in its own virtual processor.

In an embodiment the second application stored in the trusted security zone is installed in random access memory. Random access memory is memory that loses its data when power is removed and is typically used to store programs and data which are likely to need frequent updates. Using random access memory for the trusted security zone allows the provider to more easily configure and change the programs and data in the trusted security zone while still retaining the security provided by the hardware and software architecture. Hardware logic in the processor ensures users of the mobile phone do not have access to the random access memory in the trusted security zone helping to ensure the security of the second application .

In an embodiment coupling the near field communication transceiver to the selected secure partition comprises coupling the near field communication transceiver to a hardware port of the processor where the hardware port is monitored by the second application for interfacing with the secure partition . The near field communication transceiver is coupled via the Single Wire Protocol SWP to a hardware port of the processor which is monitored for data by the second application in the trusted security zone. The second application in the trusted security zone receives the data on the hardware port of the processor and sends it to the selected secure partition which processes the data and responds back through the hardware port to the near field communication transceiver to complete the transaction.

In an embodiment the plurality of secure partitions residing in the trusted security zone is configured using Open Mobile Alliance OMA standards. The Open Mobile Alliance standards allow over the air updating of the plurality of secure partitions enabling the mobile device service provider to configure and update the plurality of secure partitions using existing secure protocols already supported by the mobile phone . This over the air configuration capability provides the ability for the service provider to manage the usage of the plurality of secure partitions and implement new secure services for their customers.

In an embodiment the second application enables run time execution in the trusted security zone based on receiving a signal from the near field communication transceiver . Rather than waiting for a request from another program to execute and interface with the secure partition the second application in the trusted security zone executes at startup and continually checks for data on a hardware port of the processor . When data from the near field communication transceiver is received on the hardware port the second application accepts the data and sends it to the secure partition for executing a secure transaction.

Turning now to a system on a mobile phone for configuring a secure partition in a trusted security zone is described. The system comprises a mobile phone comprising a processor and a near field communication transceiver . The processor executes virtualization software and comprises a first processing core a second processing core a first virtual processor and a second virtual processor where the second virtual processor comprises the trusted security zone and the secure partition resides in the trusted security zone. The first virtual processor comprises an application which utilizes the secure partition in the trusted security zone. The second virtual processor comprises an application stored in the trusted security zone where the application is coupled to the near field communication transceiver via the first processing core .

The near field communication transceiver allows for secure transactions data exchange and wireless connections with other near field communication devices such as a contactless point of sale terminal or identification reader enabling communication with devices in close proximity. The secure partition comprises data and programs in the trusted security zone designed to protect the data from access by non secure programs as well as hacking attacks and malware programs. The secure partition may store credentials and data used for mobile financial services identification documents and electronic ticketing accessible only to trusted programs stored on the secure partition itself. In an embodiment the application monitors a hardware port on the first processing core of the plurality of processing cores. When data is received on the hardware port from the near field communication transceiver the application sends the data to the secure partition where the data is processed and communication is sent back to the near field communication transceiver to execute a transaction.

In an embodiment only the first processing core of the plurality of processing cores is coupled to the near field communication transceiver. Coupling the near field communication transceiver to only the first processing core allows the other processing cores to continue executing normal mobile phone functions while ensuring that the data in the secure partition remains protected. Multiprocessing is the use of two or more processing cores in a single computing system and allows balancing execution across the plurality of cores for greater efficiency. The first processing core would contribute to the execution during normal mobile phone operation but when performing a wireless link with the near field communication transceiver the first processing core would stop execution of the normal mobile phone functions. The first processing core would then be isolated from the software executing on the other processing cores.

In an embodiment the first processing core of the plurality of processing cores is coupled to the near field communication transceiver via the Single Wire Protocol. The application in the trusted security zone is coupled to the near field communication transceiver via a hardware port coupled to the first processing core of the plurality of processing cores and sends received data to the secure partition . The Single Wire Protocol provides a well defined secure interface between the near field communication transceiver and the first processing core of the plurality of processing cores .

In an embodiment the application in the trusted security zone executes on the first processing core of the plurality of cores. Isolating the trusted security zone to the first processing core ensures the security of the data processed by the application by preventing access to the first processing core from outside the trusted security zone. The application in the trusted security zone executes to receive the data on the hardware port of the first processing core from the near field communication transceiver. The application sends the received data to the secure partition where the programs running on the secure partition process the data and reply to complete the transaction. The programs running on the secure partition also execute on the first processing core for isolation from software executing on the other processing cores.

In an embodiment the first virtual processor is prevented from executing on the first processing core of the plurality of cores when the application in the trusted security zone is executing. During normal mobile phone operation the first virtual processor uses multiprocessing to execute across the plurality of processing cores . When the application in the trusted security zone begins execution the first processor core is removed from availability to the first virtual processor . The virtual processor continues to operate normally using the remaining processing cores of the plurality of processing cores .

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

