---

title: System and method for providing enhanced data for visual displays
abstract: A method and system providing enhanced data for visual displays are provided. A remote selector identifies a plurality of objects and sends at least one request to retrieve data about the objects. A server receives the request from the remote selector and retrieves the data about the objects using one or more unique index keys from a database. A display device displays the data provided by the server, and the data concurrently appears with the objects on the display device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08850485&OS=08850485&RS=08850485
owner: 
number: 08850485
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20121030
---
This application claims priority from provisional application Ser. No. 61 567 166 filed Dec. 6 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The invention is related to the of field visual display systems and in particular a system and method for providing enhanced data for visual displays. With the rapid advance in science and technology electronic devices have gained great popularity and people are becoming more and more dependent on electronic devices such as TV video recorder player and or multi media AV device. In order to control electronic devices at a distance from the user remote control devices are provided for the user to select a corresponding remote control function such as previous next channels adjusting sound volume or switching channels with the key on the remote control device. For generally known remote control devices the user remotely controls electronic devices by pressing the keys on the remote control device. Thus if the user would like to switching channels adjusting volume or switching to previous next channels the user needs to look at the remote control device select the corresponding of the desired function and then presses the key to remotely control the electronic device.

According to one aspect of the invention there is a method of providing enhanced data for visual displays. The method includes identifying a plurality of objects. The method includes assigning a unique key for each of the objects in a database. The method includes requesting the key from the database. Additionally the method includes determining data associated with the key. Further the method includes providing the data to a display device and the data concurrently appears with the objects on the display device.

According to another aspect of the invention there is a system of providing enhanced data for visual displays. The system includes a remote selector that identifies a plurality of objects and sends at least one request to retrieve data about the objects. The system includes a server that receives the request from the remote selector and retrieves the data about the objects using one or more unique index keys from a database. Further the system includes a display device that displays the data provided by the server and the data concurrently appears with the objects on the display device.

It is to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments of the invention only and is not intended to be limiting.

As will be appreciated by one having ordinary skill in the art the present invention is directed to a system and method for providing enhanced data for visual displays. By the use of a visual marker that may be activated by a viewer a pre programmed database with pre programmed associations may be invoked to display textual and other data relevant to a person place or object.

The system uses a preprogrammed database index that associates people places and objects to the database using a unique index key for each object. The database may make the association of the people places and objects on TV screens computer screens and any digital media or display devices. Examples of other implementations include but are not limited to television shows for sports movies TV series and talk shows as well as computer displayed screens such as internet displays including touch screens. If an object is selected on the display device but no unique key has been assigned by the index then a number of steps will be followed to enable services to that object 

1 Best guess for a match based on visual recognition of the object for instance the blender on the counter in the movie mat be a GE blender but since GE does not participate in the service the index and software can suggest they look up a Hamilton Beach blender this provides the user or viewer with the closet object identification and has the added benefit of providing Hamilton Beach an advertising opportunity even when their product is not in the visual display.

2 Alternate keys approach will try to combine non exact matches to make a best guess for the object but has the risk of identifying a hammer as a screwdriver.

Referring to a computer or television screen is depicted where the screen with a movie TV show or sports show is playing. The screen can be part of a television system having a cable or TIVO box or the screen can be part of a computer system that is internet enabled where there is no cable or TIVO box . After connecting to an internet website the latest information about all products for sale is provided without having a user to enter such data themselves. It is organized by the manufacturer and mapped to UPC or SKU codes through a database that is indexed by unique keys for each object and or person.

For example one implementation of the invention is a user viewing an online copy of the most recent Best Buy circular Best Buy may create their circular and connecting it online to a tagging system or the like for latest information about all the products offered for sale without having to enter the data themselves. As a result this turns the Best Buy circular into an online interactive ad instead of a flat static online publication. The database is in communication with partner servers such as IMDB or ESPN. Further the database is in communication with a smart ad server which may display full or mini commercials or links to web pages.

Referring to all interfaces are through a cloud or the internet . A control module manages all operations between the database and internet network using a number of interfaces. As will be described in further detail below the database may be a standard database that is either local or remote the schema provided in Table 1 is what makes the database unique. The scheme along with decisions rules that can be learned pre programmed or edited to create new ones or improve database access rules makes this service novel. Also the database can be in a cloud based service that can be replicated backed up and preserved so a future service can be offered to show what the state of the database was some time in the past. A later version of the database can be created by appending or each unique database record key a time stamp so each time it gets updated changed or deleted there is a timestamp thus allowing the cloud based service to provide a lookup that is current.

Referring to the database which is where input output operations are performed is in communication with the ad server and a controller module . In addition to the function described above the ad server is also used to store advertisements that may be used to replace or supplement traditional advertising. The ad server provides a link to a viewing mechanism such as a digital TV DVD computer iPad or tablet. The database is in communication with a controller module which is responsible for at least application program interface API processing that ensures the unique key adding a unique key eliminating dupes and adding or updating fields. A plurality of bulk uploads are fed into the controller module such as from Amazon Overstock IMDB and Netflix . Additionally information from a user or operator is fed to controller .

Referring now to there is shown an embodiment of a representation of identity and background data about actors on a television show along with a focus marker . As illustrated in there is shown an embodiment of a representation of a standard remote control that a television viewer may use where the existing interactive keys on the remote control display identity and background data about the actors on for example a television show.

More specifically those existing interactive A B and C buttons and respectively on the remote control may be used to move from object to object or object to person. For example button A may move a focus marker among people and objects and button B may launch a data service. In an alternate setup button A may invoke a focus marker the arrow buttons on the remote control may be used to choose between people and objects on the screen and button B may launch a data service. Button C may be used to choose among displayed informational topics as may the arrow buttons on the remote control . In addition a filter may be added which may allow the viewer to determine whether they would like to view people only objects only or both.

By accessing existing API https dev.twitter.com one can use the tagged twitter handle of an actor to access his or her twitter stream. The invention allows for merging the twitter handle with a live action movie or live TV show that includes that person is truly unique. For instance Brad Pitt may be walking down the Red Carpet at the Academy awards and through the invention one can overlay that live action TV show with his twitter stream by connecting the API to https twitter.com bradpittupdates twitter handle and stream those updates. This is a rather elegant merge of the feed from twitter and combined with the novel live matching service described henceforth of the Brad Pitt actor key by looking up in a database the twitter handle opening a connection to the twitter feed and then displaying it live as an overlay on top of the TV show.

Other implementations include sports programs movies TV shows and live news programs to the extent that voice to text translation technology may be implemented and associated. For instance a newscaster may say Libya Moammar Gadhafi and the invention software may associate the text translation of Moammar Gadhafi P44129870 which is an index key to the database at the cloud server .

Using the remote control to launch display of additional data the TV viewer may launch a pop up display of data such as the stores an appliance e.g. a mixer may be bought at or websites where it may be purchased along with prices.

Another example is a viewer watching a TV cooking show where a cake is being baked. The cake may be selected to be displayed in a frame s of the show an option that may pop up is the recipe. Further since baking recipes may require special handling in high altitude such a recipe may be included to provide bake times tailored to the specific location of the viewer.

Accordingly this invention may replace traditional advertising. There are many advantages to this new form of advertising placement. First TV shows may replace lost revenue that is suffered because of time shifting. Secondly commercials may be updated in real time because the ads do not reside at the broadcaster they are presented by an ad server which may provide ad data in text sound or video formats or a link to another website all in near real time.

The ads may be served region specific or even person specific for instance once it is known that the viewer is clicking on a for example KitchenAid mixer that is being viewed in the TV show and an IP address of the viewer is also known then the product and location of the vendor may be provided. This information may generate results such as price in an area of the viewer stores in an area of the viewer or even models specific to an area of the viewer.

If the viewer were viewing a TV show that for example showed a car chase using a late model or currently available vehicles for example a BMW 750 chasing a Lexus a viewer may be interested in further information about the Lexus. The viewer may select the Lexus along with another selection of the location of the viewer derived by an IP address where it is possible to deduce that the viewer is in for example California and display vehicle information gas mileage and emission information. The cost of gasoline for a year may be computed by knowing the location of the viewer and the mileage rating of the car.

Enhanced replacement or derived advertising is a major benefit of this invention and may possibly generate revenues for broadcasters using the invention.

One example is a TV show not live such as a TV series. Display in any scene or frame may include actors places and objects. For example a TV show may have a kitchen scene and in the scene appears a KitchenAid mixer. Prior to the show being displayed during post production using provided existing video editing software the object will be assigned an index key associated with the database using the controller .

The keys may be held in a cloud server for the shared but unique licensees of this invention. The benefits of a centrally assigned unique key are basic no duplicates accidently assigned no multiple keys assigned to the same UPC or SKU or vehicle model and the shared benefit of licensees of not having to enter the same information over and over again. Table 1 below illustrates a database schema layout with the associated descriptions and field names for the data. Note that the invention can include a database schema and timestamp arrangement as well for older databases structures.

As an example of a use of this technology the maker of for example KitchenAid mixers may request a unique key from the cloud server for its new model of mixer. Then resellers of that product such as Sears KMART Amazon and Target may obtain this information from a database server managed and stored in the cloud server which may be accessed in real time or ahead of time.

The centralized database server that is used in post processing of movies TV shows and the like utilizes a specialized unique key for each object assigned using the software. The video editing software may tag the data stream with people product key words or script words. In the above example the database is the same large cloud based database that is a major part of the invention with the defined schema above. Moreover the term software is used as an example of using existing facial and object recognition software that is enhanced to automatically assign keys and details in the database to video images or digital version of shows or streams and have all objects automatically tagged. When objects are not recognized human intervention using the same software can be required. The existing facial or object recognition software is not part of the invention modifying it to recognize and then assign database keys or associate with the existing database entries is part of the invention.

Another implementation may extend the above capability to magazines online however that is not core to this invention.

Referring to the viewer may press button A from the remote control and the focus marker will appear above the person in the screen.

Then the viewer may press button B from the remote control and the details that pop up will show up super imposed over an image of for example Jason Bourne next to the actor or in a corner of the screen.

In another embodiment the method of control may be through an external device such as a keyboard. The keyboard may be connected to a computer or a Smart or Internet enabled TV which may be done via a wireless keyboard that is connected to the TV or computer using Bluetooth or another wireless protocol.

In another embodiment an implementation of the keyboard may be a virtual keyboard that is displayed on the TV or computer screen and accessed using the remote control .

Other implementations of the keyboard function can include using virtual keyboards through a tablet like an iPad or an Android tablet device or using an iPhone with the existing interfaces that replicate a full or modified keyboard iTouch or other smart phone or smart phone devices that may create and enable a virtual or screen based keyboard.

Database operations are designed to provide a unique database key for each object that is tagged or identified and to ensure that the same object does not get two keys assigned to it. In the cases where an exact match is not made a series of tests can be done by the software 1 Best guess for a match based on visual recognition of the object for instance the blender on the counter in the movie maybe a GE blender but since GE does not participate in the service our index and software will suggest they look up a Hamilton Beach blender this provides the user or viewer with the closet object identification and has the added benefit of providing Hamilton Beach an advertising opportunity even when their product is not in the visual display and 2 Alternate keys approach will try to combine non exact matches to make a best guess for the object but has the risk of identifying a hammer as a screwdriver.

The software tool that runs on a computer with IOS Linux or Windows that recognizes objects in a video stream or using a mouse allows the user or viewer to mark the relative area of the object with mouse clicks. This is not dissimilar to video or photo editing software that allows the user of the software to edit images or objects for digital enhancement. For the purposes of the software and invention it adds a unique key column 1 of the database layout above in Table 1 then it may add additional data fields in at least two methods 

An operator of the software may select from a drop down list a related database that contains all the other details. Options and examples include SKU database UPC database Amazon database Store database such as Macy s Overstock.com database.

This may be accomplished by a set of APIs and data transfers done allowing for the storing of information between databases and . This attribute of the invention is a data conversion and entry method that is proprietary to the invention and the database. Frequent updates can be made to these published data sources using common API s or custom one s built to extract the data and normalize it into the cloud database of this invention.

The database works like a standard high performance replicated database in many ways but the unique ways are as follows 

2. Allow singular updates to records from other database sources using custom API s that may be used to seamlessly add many fields about one object but only for purposes of required operations. For example the API may add several fields from the IMDB.com database about an actor but would not at that time include the detailed data about the actor such as movies co stars date of birth DOD birthplace all that data would be linked over on a per request basis under this invention from IMDB.com.

3. Enable bulk updates of new records from bulk sources. For instance each day Amazon.com adds many new items movies or books to its database the API will enable the updates additions deletes and edits in a bulk manner from Amazon.com.

5. Database integrity operations would constantly check all updates and edits to ensure that primary database keys are unique. The updates and edits may be done one at a time by a user or in massive volume by an external provider. For instance bulk updates may be accepted from Amazon.com and NetFlix on the same day and both may be trying to add a new movies release for example The Greatest Minds of IP . Although it is perfectly acceptable for both Amazon and NetFlix to send this update the APIs will ensure that only one unique entry is made with two alternate keys one for Amazon one for NetFlix.

All software programs and system applications described herein are platform independent and can execute in any browser such as Firefox Internet Explorer or Chrome . The web applicant can also be written in any platform independent base computer language such as Java or the like. All software programs and system applications execute on a client computer using a processor or the like. All software programs and system applications can be stored in the RAM or ROM of the client. Furthermore all software programs and system applications can be stored on an external memory device to be uploaded to the client computer for execution. The elements associated with all software programs and system applications can be executed from the client computer or on a remote server. All database servers can be local on the client computer or on a remote server as well as on a system remote from either the client computer or remote server. The client computer remote server and database servers communicate to each other using known communication protocols such as TCP IP.

Although the present invention has been shown and described with respect to several preferred embodiments thereof various changes omissions and additions to the form and detail thereof may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

