---

title: Method of installing a flexible component in a U-shaped component
abstract: An installation method makes use of a tool that includes a block and a plate. The block is configured to align the installation tool with a U-shaped component. The plate extends from the block and is configured to hold a flexible component, such that the flexible component is accurately located within the U-shaped component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08875374&OS=08875374&RS=08875374
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08875374
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121002
---
This application is a division of application Ser. No. 12 182 783 entitled INSTALLATION TOOL FOR USE WITH U SHAPED COMPONENT filed Jul. 30 2008.

The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by the U.S. Navy.

The present invention relates generally to an installation tool. More specifically the present invention relates to an installation tool for installing a flexible part into a U shaped component.

The structural attributes of gas turbine engine components can be critical to engine performance. Sometimes a particular component will embody a structure that makes manufacturing processes such as adhesive bonding particularly difficult. For example commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 080 051 which is hereby incorporated by reference discloses an improved architecture for embedded heating elements in a fan inlet shroud fairing with a U shaped structure. Installing a flexible component into a U shaped component proved difficult in manufacturing.

An exemplary embodiment of the present invention is an installation method for use with a U shaped component. The method includes forming a flexible assembly with a flexible component attaching the flexible assembly to a plate coating the flexible component with an adhesive coupling the plate to a block positioning the block on top of an open end of a U shaped component and sliding the plate into the U shaped component wherein the plate guides the flexible component into a position for installation.

The length and width of arm are sufficient to support flexible component . Side arm is positioned on arm at a predetermined distance to aid in supporting flexible component . Side arm may also include indicator to aid in horizontally aligning flexible component with respect to U shaped component . Base is designed to couple with block . Preferably slit receives an edge of base so that plate is removably coupled to and extends from block . Lip creates a ridge around block which is configured to align installation tool with U shaped component . The position of lip on block is dependent on the desired vertical alignment of flexible component in U shaped component . Together block and plate form adhesive installation tool capable of installing flexible component into U shaped component .

Block may be approximately rectangular and comprise any sturdy material that will not damage a U shaped component such as but not limited to nylon. In the embodiment depicted in block is approximately 3 inches 7.62 cm tall 5 inches 12.7 cm long and 0.65 inches 1.651 cm thick. Lip extends from a surface of block and surrounds block to form a ridge. In lip increased the width of block from 0.65 inches 1.651 cm to approximately 1.5 inches 3.81 cm . Slit runs through an end of block and is configured for receiving base . In slit runs 2 inches 5.08 cm long and 0.188 inches 0.4775 cm wide. Plate and block may be coupled via slit to form installation tool for use with a U shaped component.

Once flexible component has been coated with adhesive plate is coupled to a block step . is a perspective view of plate coupled to block . Block may have slit which receives base of plate thereby coupling plate to block . Once coupled block is positioned on top of an open end of U shaped component step . is a perspective view of block positioned on top of U shaped component . Block may have lip for positioning on top of U shaped component . U shaped component may comprise but is not limited to a fan inlet shroud fairing. Once block is positioned on top of U shaped component plate is slid into U shaped component step as indicated by arrow A. When sliding into U shaped component plate guides flexible component into a predetermined position for installation. is a perspective view of plate after sliding into U shaped component . Method teaches how to insert flexible component into U shaped component using installation tool .

When plate is slid inside of U shaped component it assumes a vertical position determined by block . It may however be desirable to check the horizontal alignment of plate carrying flexible component with respect to U shaped component step . is a perspective view of indicator on side arm being used to check the horizontal alignment of plate with respect to U shaped component . If alignment is satisfactory disassembly of the tool may begin.

Installation tool may be disassembled while leaving flexible component in its inserted location within U shaped component . Block may be removed from plate step by decoupling the coupling mechanism which held block and plate together. is a perspective view of U shaped component with block removed. After block is removed the flexible assembly insert and flexible component may be disconnected from support plate step . is a perspective view of the flexible assembly being disconnected from plate . If tape was used to attach the flexible assembly to plate tape may be removed. After the flexible assembly is disconnected from plate plate may be removed from U shaped component step . is a perspective view of U shaped component with plate removed. Once disassembly of installation tool is complete flexible component is fixed in its inserted location within U shaped component . If desired mandrel may be inserted into U shaped component step . is a perspective view of mandrel inserted into U shaped component . After insertion of mandrel into U shaped component the adhesive may be cured step to assure flexible component does not move from its intended location. Curing the adhesive may include applying pressure and or heat to the adhesive. Method teaches how to adhere a flexible component to an inner surface of the U shaped component.

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment s it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

