---

title: Systems and methods for controlling portfolios
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed which relate to the management of asset invested in a fund. The system includes a computer connected to a network which has constantly updated fund data available to compare a current fund with a plurality of possible new funds. The system automatically transfers from one fund to another according to user predetermined criteria.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08660928&OS=08660928&RS=08660928
owner: 
number: 08660928
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120110
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 936 172 filed Nov. 7 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 095 446 the content of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety into this disclosure.

The present invention relates to controlling portfolios. More particularly the present invention relates to automatically allocating rebalancing and transferring funds between mutual funds and portfolios based upon predetermined criteria.

A mutual fund is a managed form of collective investments that pools money from many investors and invests it into portfolios composed primarily of stocks bonds short term money market instruments or other securities.

Most mutual funds investment portfolios are continually adjusted under the supervision of a professional manager. This manager generally forecasts the future performance of investments appropriate for the fund and chooses those which he or she believes will most closely match the fund s stated investment objective. This is known as active management. However other mutual funds mirror established indices such as the S P 500 and Wilshire 5000. The manager simply invests to replicate the movements of the index regardless of market conditions. This form of management is known as passive management because the manager usually relies on a computer model with little human input. There is much debate of which style of management yields the best results with positive and negative attributes on either side.

Choosing the best fit mutual fund to invest in is complicated. The potential investor should be aware of the risks and performance of each fund as well as the type of fund. Funds vary substantially in their holdings and goals. Some funds may take on more risk in anticipation of a higher payoff in the future. Other funds focus on a more conservative approach avoiding risk for a more secure and consistent return. Depending on the specific goals of an investor all criteria should be scrutinized in order to match those goals with a particular fund. Mutual fund growth is often unpredictable. If a fund is invested heavily in one particular area a sudden change in that market can significantly alter the status of the fund. It is for this reason that mutual fund managers typically diversify the holdings of a mutual fund. Diversification gives the benefit of stability as a sudden change in one area of the market will not substantially affect the entire fund.

One of the important factors for determining in which fund to invest is fund performance. If a particular fund is not performing up to an investor s expectations the investor should transfer his assets to a fund that will meet his expectations. In order to minimize the possible loss involved in staying with a fund that has begun to underperform this transfer should be done as soon as possible. However constant monitoring of a fund s performance is beyond the capabilities of the average investor.

What is needed is a system or method that can automatically reallocate and rebalance a portfolio based on the pre determined criteria given by the investor.

The present invention is a proprietary computer based system which allows clients to have their account balances automatically swept or otherwise transferred from their current mutual fund or position to a new mutual fund or position that fits the client s predetermined criteria. Furthermore the present invention features a user friendly selection screen in which to create criteria for use in selecting a new fund once a current fund no longer meets user criteria. This computer based system can be in a remote location on a network or the user s personal computer. Once a transfer of assets is complete a notification can be sent to the user.

In one exemplary embodiment the present invention is a system for automatically allocating and rebalancing portfolios. The system includes an asset invested in a fund a fund database having information about a plurality of funds a computer connected to the fund database and a user predetermined criteria including a condition that triggers a transfer of the asset from one fund to another on the computer. The computer automatically and without the need for any user intervention transfers the asset from a first fund to a second fund if the condition is satisfied.

In another exemplary embodiment the present invention is a system for automatically allocating and rebalancing portfolios. The system includes a pre selected fund a user predetermined criteria prioritized by the user to determine which of a plurality of funds is suitable a plurality of fund data which is continuously updated and used to determine which of the plurality of funds meets the user defined criteria and a computer which continuously monitors the pre selected fund to confirm it complies with the user defined criteria. An automatic transfer of funds is made in the event the fund fails to meet the user predetermined criteria.

In yet another exemplary embodiment the present invention is a method for automatically allocating and rebalancing portfolios. The method includes programming a user predetermined criteria including a condition that triggers a transfer of an asset from a first fund to a second fund on a computer and transferring the asset from the first fund to the second fund via the computer without any user intervention.

The present invention provides a novel solution to the problems associated with constant monitoring of a fund. In one exemplary embodiment the present invention is a proprietary computer based system which allows clients to have their account balances automatically swept or otherwise transferred from their current mutual fund or position to a new mutual fund or position that fits the client s predetermined criteria.

 Computer as used herein and throughout this disclosure refers to any device capable of running a software program and connecting to a network. Examples of computers include but are not limited to desktop computers laptop computers Personal Digital Assistants PDA s mobile telephones etc.

 Asset as used herein and throughout this disclosure refers to any economic value that is potentially or actually an investment. Examples of an asset include but are not limited to cash stock shares mutual fund shares money market shares bank accounts etc.

 Fund as used herein and throughout this disclosure refers to any collective investment. Examples of a fund include but are not limited to a mutual fund a money market fund a stock index a hedge fund etc.

The data from mutual funds are fed into and aggregated into a proprietary application programming interface API . The clients may then upload their own specific investment criteria parameters into this interface from whichever firm they do their online or institutional banking with. The invention allows for the automatic and seamless movement of client institutional funds from one mutual fund to another based upon the user s pre selected set of parameter s .

For example in one exemplary embodiment of the invention a client selects to automatically have its portfolio cash swept to the highest yielding mutual fund available on the platform. This selection could be based upon the previous business day s closing net yield or any other pre determined criteria. The transaction is accomplished seamlessly and automatically and without the need for a command trade or even a keystroke on the part of the account holder.

In one exemplary embodiment of the present invention the system allows for predetermined If Then criteria to determine which transactions will be made. These criteria can include but are not limited to the asset size of the fund the gross performance of the fund the net fund performance or other various rating criteria such as NAIC approval Nynex Comex CME. The gross performance could be based on 1 day 7 day 30 day 6 month 12 month annual 3 year 5 year or 10 year averages. Net fund performance could be based on 1 day 7 day 30 day 6 month 12 month annual 3 year 5 year or 10 year averages. The other rating criteria could include various ratings criteria from NSRO s Nationally Recognized Ratings Organizations such as Standard and Poors .

Users are also encouraged to make many criterion selections for multiple assets and funds. For example a fund manager may wish to take a vacation or need to leave the office for an extended period of time. This invention would allow the fund manager to set his parameters and automatically manage his funds from any place outside the office.

As a non limiting example if a client was invested in a WACHOVIA MONEY MARKET FUND and had previously entered the criteria that any such fund he is invested in must have a portfolio size of at least 1 billion USD and the WACHOVIA MONEY MARKET FUND s assets subsequently dropped below this predetermined 1 billion level his assets would automatically be transferred to another fund on the platform that had at least 1 billion in assets.

In another exemplary embodiment of the invention more than one criterion may be entered in a particular sequence. The sets of criteria may be layered to establish the order in which the user prefers them to be carried out. For example if the assets in the fund the user is currently investing in should drop below 1 billion the invention could automatically move the assets from the user s account into the highest yielding fund which also has assets of at least 1 billion. This requires the determination of when the fund has dropped below the 1 billion threshold and well as determining the highest yielding fund that does meet the threshold requirement. The determination of the highest yielding fund could be based upon the previous days close or some other metric.

In a further embodiment once the criteria for selecting funds is established it will remain uncharged until the account holder takes action to charge or remove their predetermined criteria.

The foregoing disclosure of the exemplary embodiments of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many variations and modifications of the embodiments described herein will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in light of the above disclosure. The scope of the invention is to be defined only by the claims appended hereto and by their equivalents.

Further in describing representative embodiments of the present invention the specification may have presented the method and or process of the present invention as a particular sequence of steps. However to the extent that the method or process does not rely on the particular order of steps set forth herein the method or process should not be limited to the particular sequence of steps described. As one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate other sequences of steps may be possible. Therefore the particular order of the steps set forth in the specification should not be construed as limitations on the claims. In addition the claims directed to the method and or process of the present invention should not be limited to the performance of their steps in the order written and one skilled in the art can readily appreciate that the sequences may be varied and still remain within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

