---

title: Method of protecting buildings from termite attack
abstract: The present invention relates to a method for protecting the lower regions of and structure of a building from damage or degradation by termites. The method comprising for the steps of creating a region in the ground below the building having properties hostile to termites whereby to discourage them from approaching the vicinity of the building. In one embodiment means for creating a hostile region in the ground below the building are provided by a pump which creates a superatmospheric pressure field in this region. In another embodiment, treatment agents such as ozone may be delivered to the ground region in order to provide a hostile effect to the termites by affecting their pheromone chemistry and/or their reproductive or communicative behavior. A secondary function of the present invention relates to the creation of a forced ventilation of the habitable region within which the apparatus of the present invention resides.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09226491&OS=09226491&RS=09226491
owner: PRESTIGE AIR-TECHNOLOGY LIMITED
number: 09226491
owner_city: 
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20120315
---
This application is a Continuation in Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 094 517 entitled IMPROVED BUILDING PROTECTION APPARATUS filed May 21 2008 which is a U.S. National Entry of International Patent Application No. PCT GB2006 004309 the contents of both of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates generally to a method for protecting the structure of a building from attack by termites.

Existing pest control methods differ for new build and retrofit installations. For example currently in new build installations control is achieved by use of a passive barrier. Conversely in retrofit installations the common control method involves the use of chemical treatment. Failure of performance may occur in both of these common methods currently used.

In the case of a passive barrier for example of the type disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 417 017 even a very small failure can effectively have the same result as having no barrier at all since termites are able to pass through very small openings. Consequently 100 performance of a control method of this type is difficult to achieve for a new build housing installation. An additional problem with this method of pest control is that damage to the barrier may occur during work being undertaken subsequent to the initial installation such that later alterations may damage the integrity of an existing well fitted barrier.

The treatment of existing buildings when infested with termites generally relies upon the delivery of a fumigating chemical and or pesticide to the total area of the underside of a building where access is difficult. Consequently the effectiveness of this fumigation method is reliant upon the operative s efficiency. It is unlikely that 100 of the termites will be killed on every such treatment leaving some in place to continue damaging the building which means that a further treatment is required periodically for example every three months which is a labor intensive as well as a costly procedure and more importantly the building is gradually damaged more and more by the termites which are not killed off at each treatment as their population builds up again.

Various systems have been tried to keep termites at bay to protect buildings. Japanese publication document 11 036470 Kagawa describes a system in which a treatment agent ozone is delivered as a fumigation treatment in to an already infested building with the intention of killing the insects in place in the building by applying a concentration of treatment agents sufficiently high for this purpose and for relatively short duration since while such serious and potentially harmful fumigation is taking place in the building it is wise if not downright necessary for the building to be evacuated of its human inhabitants. Kagawa describes a treatment effected by infusing ozone for something in the region of two hours until the termites are killed.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 327 812 Hedman also relates to a fumigation treatment of up to six hours. In such fumigation treatments it is not possible to allow human habitation to continue. Another Japanese patent 6 3273902 Miwazawa involves utilizing a detector to sense the migration of termites in order to trigger the infusion of the treatment agent sufficient to kill the termites. This treatment is applied once the termites are in the building and the aim of the treatment is to kill the termites entirely although as discussed above it has to be recognized that such total eradication is rarely actually achieved in practice.

An alternative approach is utilized in other circumstances where it is known to utilize long term low level infusion of ozone for example as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 514 343 Garbut which keeps molds and bacteria at bay in animal housing. Similarly U.S. Pat. No. 6 325 971 Hayes describes a system for distributing ozone throughout a poultry house including the step of infusing a litter bed with ozone. The ozone is maintained at exposure levels lethal to pathogens within the litter bed indefinitely. The Garbut document describes the use of ozone in enclosed spaces primarily fruit storage rooms or animal housing with ozone being used to lethal effect on bacteria fungus and molds. The document also refers to the maintenance of a residual amount of ozone sufficient continuously to suppress the bacteria fungus and molds whilst being safe for human exposure to allow workers to move in and out of the ozonated area without hazard.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 276 304 Tai refers to the introduction of ozone beneath the ground namely into the material within a manure pit beneath ground level constituting part of the interior of a pig raising house.

Although it is recognized in these documents that a low level of ozone may achieve the desired lethal effect while nevertheless being sufficiently low in concentration in the regions occupied by humans as to cause no damage to the humans this system cannot be applied directly to the protection of buildings from termites as will be discussed in more detail below.

The performance of the delivery system therefore is the key to achieving effective control of termites. It has been found that in order to preserve the integrity of a building it is necessary to infuse the ground with a concentration of treatment agent which is sufficient to create a hostile environment without actually killing any termites. As a consequence the termites are unable to remain in the hostile environment and move away from it. Importantly as they leave they secrete a warning pheromone which acts as a deterrent to other termites discouraging them from entering the protected region while it remains active. It is therefore not necessary to infuse the treatment agent into the protected region while their pheromone is active. Indeed it has also been found that continuous uninterrupted delivery of treatment agent such as ozone may even be counterproductive because it can mask the termites own warning pheromone and termites can get inured to the presence of the treatment agent and develop tactics to cope with its presence. One technique which has been observed is for termites to create tunnels from regurgitated cellulose obtained from wooden parts of the building s structure. The cellulose tunnels are impervious to ozone so that the termites are effectively screened from it and can consequently bore further into the timber weakening the structure despite the attempts to eradicate them. A prophylactic treatment thus requires a careful determination of the best concentration of treatment agent such as to cause the termites to vacate the protected region rather than flooding the area and causing death without giving the insects an opportunity to escape since it is only upon escaping that they secrete their warning pheromone that is developed by the termites themselves to stick to the surfaces of their passageways and tunnels and warn other termites not to enter the protected region.

Accordingly the present invention provides a method of protecting a building from damage by termites comprising the steps of 

The present invention also comprehends a method of protecting a building from damage by termites comprising the steps of 

The means for creating a region with properties inhospitable to the termites comprise means for delivering ozone at least in sufficient concentration to affect the reproductive or communicative behavior of said termites or other insects in other words it is not sufficiently concentrated as to be lethal but it causes termites to attempt to communicate by secreting warning pheromones as they leave the region.

The ozone is thus to be delivered at least in sufficient concentration to modify the pheromone chemistry of the termites.

The apparatus used for performing the method of the invention may further comprise means for generating a superatmospheric pressure field in the ground region below the building. A positive pressure field in this region will help to ensure that the termites are repelled from this field and therefore are discouraged from approaching the protected region.

The means for creating a superatmospheric pressure field may comprise a pump located within the building. Such a pump may provide sufficient pressure to create a superatmospheric pressure field in the region below the building.

The pump may be located within a habitable region of the building and may act to create forced ventilation thereof. By pumping air from the habitable region of the building to a region below the building this creates a pressure differential between the two regions. The resultant sub atmospheric pressure field created in the habitable region of the building encourages an inward movement of air from the exterior of the building thereby naturally ventilating the interior of the building. Further because the pump is located within a habitable region of the building access to the pump is made easier for the purpose of any repair and maintenance work that may be required.

The apparatus for performing the method of the invention may further comprise detecting means for monitoring the movement of termites as they approach the building from within the ground region below the building. The detecting means may be capable of communication with the means for delivery of the treatment agent into the region below the building to allow the treatment agent to be delivered when required in response to the arrival of the termites. In this way the treatment agent can be delivered to the protected region below the building In such a way as to maximize its effectiveness and moreover to trigger the termites themselves to generate a warning signal of long duration to keep other termites from approaching the building for a significant time period.

The apparatus may further comprise additional components to alter the form and or potency of the treatment agent to be delivered. This may include for example means for ionizing air for generating ozone or for generating oxides of nitrogen. Accordingly the apparatus comprising the aforementioned means may act to ionize the air which passes through the apparatus. Further the aforementioned means may also act to generate ozone and or generate oxides of nitrogen from the air that passes through the apparatus. The ozone may be generated on site i.e. in situ or may be generated off site and stored in containers on site ready for delivery to the region below a building whereby to produce an environment inhospitable to termites.

The method of the invention may further comprise the step of detecting the arrival or presence of termites below the building and in response using this information to initiate the delivery of the treatment agent. If the treatment agent is ozone the appropriate delivery rate to achieve the required concentration levels at the places where the termites are found can be determined in advance from tests conducted on the site or may be conducted from tables drawn up as a result of previous tests on similar such buildings or under laboratory conditions so that when implementing the method of the invention further such tests are not required.

The delivery of the treatment agent to the region below the building may be continuous for a short time sufficient to drive out all the termites or may be continued until all the termites have vacated the protected region and no further termites are detected as being present. A controlled ventilation at a pre set flow rate may also prevent wood decay in the lower regions of the buildings simply by improving the ventilation. The creation of an airflow at depth flooding through the ground under a building will produce a totally unnatural subsoil condition for termites thereby acting as an invisible barrier. The effect will also be to remove track scenting laid by such termites in their search for food and moisture this will act as a disorientating and hostile environment to them. It is important therefore that the delivery of treatment agent be discontinued once the termites have vacated the protected region in order to avoid dissipating their warning pheromones which would result in an earlier reinfestation.

The treatment agent may then be delivered at temporally spaced intervals. In this way the present invention may also be used as a backup insurance to a permanent passive barrier. The present invention may therefore remain in a dormant state until such a passive barrier has been breached. Accordingly the treatment agent may then be delivered to the subterranean regions in the required amounts. The required amount may of course change over time depending on the nature of the ground and possibly the species of termites and therefore the temporally spaced intervals of the treatment agent delivery may also be varied to accommodate this change.

The delivery of the treatment agent may also additionally be randomly altered in terms of the concentration of the treatment agent or the length of the temporally spaced intervals. In this way the termites are less likely to become resistant or tolerant to the arrangement of the irregular delivery of treatment agent whether this be the concentration or the temporal intervals between the treatment agent applications.

In a further aspect the present invention also envisages a method of protecting a subterranean region below a building from insects such as termites the method comprising the step of creating an environment having properties inhospitable to the said termites or other insects by the presence of ozone the said ozone being present at least in sufficient concentration to cause said termites to vacate the region whereby to result in at least a depletion of the population thereof

In another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of protecting a subterranean region below a building from termites the method comprising the step of creating an environment having properties inhospitable to the said termites or other insects by the presence of ozone the said ozone being present at least in sufficient concentration to cause the termites to vacate the vicinity and to leave the pheromone warning signal to deter other termites from entering the region.

In a further aspect the present invention encompasses the use of ozone to protect a subterranean region below a building from insects such as termites whereby to produce an environment inhospitable to the said termites without being lethal when present at least in sufficient concentration to affect the reproductive or communicative behavior of the said termites or other insects.

In another aspect the present invention provides for the use of ozone in the manufacture of a composition for the treatment of a subterranean region below a building against infestation by insects such as termites.

A pheromone is a volatile hormone or behavior modifying agent. Ozone is a known strongly oxidizing agent. Accordingly it is believed that ozone may be used to modify the behavior of a termite causing it to produce a pheromone such that the communication between termites for example is affected. This may for example have a disorientating effect on the termites.

Accordingly ozone may have an alternative use for affecting the reproductive or communicative behavior and or modifying the pheromone chemistry of insects such as termites.

Apparatus formed according to the present invention may comprise means for generating ozone in situ or on site which may then be conveyed to the required regions. A method of producing ozone on site may include for example reacting hydrocarbons with nitrogen oxides particularly nitrogen dioxide in the presence of sunlight or other source of ultra violet light. This method is similar to the natural creation of ground level ozone. Other methods of generating ozone on site may include electrostatic or corona discharge techniques.

In use of an embodiment of the present invention air comprising ozone is injected into a region below a building infested with termites or other insects. The ozone has the effect of creating an uncomfortable and hostile environment for the termites or other insects and further is able to modify the pheromone chemistry thereof thereby inhibiting the communication between the termites or other insects which has the effect of disorientating them. Accordingly such termites or other insects may either be reduced in numbers by evacuation or termination or may simply be discouraged from approaching the building.

Insects such as termites feed on wood or other sources of cellulose. Although they lack specific cellulases for breaking down cellulose they are still able to digest it because of symbiotic relationships with flagellate protozoa bacteria and fungi. For example some protozoa digest wood particles by hydrolyzing cellulose anaerobically which produces glucose that can be absorbed by an insect such as a termite.

The cellulose which insects such as termites attack is broken down to carbon dioxide and water causing timber to lose strength. The resultant increase in concentration of carbon dioxide during digestion of wood by termites for example provides an attractant scent indicating the presence of food for other termites. It is thought that the presence of ozone may reduce or eliminate the carbon dioxide residing in the environment of the termite or other insects thereby affecting the pheromone chemistry of the termites or other insects. The ozone may provide an energized oxygen rich atmosphere which may be inhospitable to termites or other insects.

To ensure that the ozone concentration does not have adverse effects on human health if the ozone were to escape from subterranean region below the building into the building itself the concentration of the ozone in the air to be injected is preferably less than 0.1 ppm parts per million . If a building is already infested with termites then it may be desirable to inject a higher ozone concentration higher than 0.1 ppm for a short period to begin with to increase the potency of the ozone air mix then reduce to a lower ozone concentration lower than 0.1 ppm which may be pumped continuously for an extended period such as between a week and a month because it is below the safety threshold for humans. Alternatively in houses under construction it may be advantageous to inject a low ozone concentration lower than 0.1 ppm continuously during construction for a preventative effect.

Referring first to there is shown a section of a building generally indicated . The building comprises a loft region a window habitable rooms a foundation layer footings a pump unit and diffusion means here depicted as a conduit . The pump unit is located within a habitable room and is shown in more detail in and

With reference to there is shown an enlarged view of the pump unit generally indicated of . The pump unit has air intake openings an air filter a reservoir of a chemical agent vapor which comprises ozone in this example and a control valve . Obviously other types of closure valve may be employed in other embodiments. The pump unit also has a primary mover which in use draws air from within a habitable room of the building via the air intake openings . The pump unit is provided with an air filter to remove any dust particles or other impurities that may be contained within the air. Following this the clean air moves in a direction indicated by the pump air stream arrows towards the conduit which is connected at the outlet of the pump unit . The control valve is located within a wall of the reservoir .

The amount of ozone to be delivered to the subterranean ground region below the building while the system is active can be varied by controlling the opening of the control valve . illustrates the control valve in a fully closed position thereby preventing any chemical agent vapor from mixing with and being conveyed by the air stream . Consequently in this configuration the pump air stream will not contain ozone and therefore only air will be delivered to the subterranean regions below the building .

Referring back to the conduit connects the outlet from the pump unit into the subterranean region below the building . The conduit passes through the foundation layer to enable delivery of the gas mix to the subterranean region below the building . The gas mix diffuses into the subterranean region below the building and moves in a direction indicated by the arrows . This movement is in a downward and lateral direction from the ground region between the footings of the building to an eventual upward direction towards and through the ground layer located on the extremities of the building . In this way the gas mix will eventually diffuse into the external atmosphere. The gas mix is forced into the ground region under pressure by the pump unit thereby creating an invisible barrier which acts to inhibit the presence of and growth of termites in order to protect the building .

With reference to there is illustrated a representation of the respective regions above and below the foundation layer . The pump unit pumps air from within the habitable rooms of the building into the ground region below the building . Accordingly the relative pressures in these respective regions are indicated in that the region above the foundation layer has a sub atmospheric pressure whereas the region below the foundation layer has a superatmposheric pressure . This relative pressure differential ensures that a positive pressure field is maintained in the ground region below the building when the system is active thereby maintaining a continuous flow of gas mix within this region. This pressure differential and airflow has the effect of removing moisture from this region by ventilation thereof and also acts to avoid still air. Consequently unnatural subsoil conditions are generated thereby creating an invisible barrier in which termites are discouraged from entering. Accordingly the termites vacate the region leaving behind a pheromone which warns other termites against entering the protected region.

Referring back to there is also illustrated a secondary function of the present invention. The building is also provided with external air intake grilles through which external air surrounding the building is drawn into the building. The external air intake grilles are located on both the exterior side wall of the building and on the ceilings of the habitable rooms adjacent to the loft . The secondary function of the present invention takes effect in conjunction with the primary function of the present invention in that in use when internal air is drawn in by the pump unit to be delivered to the subterranean region below the building external air is simultaneously drawn in from the external regions surrounding the building and also the loft of the building the external air intake flow being indicated by arrows . This forced ventilation of the internal regions of the building is caused by the sub atmospheric pressure created by action of the pump unit . Accordingly this induced pressure differential between the internal regions of the building and the external regions of the building causes external air to be drawn in via the external air intake grilles and the peripheral regions of the window .

In the alternative embodiment illustrated in sensors detect the presence of termites to trigger the operation of the pump to deliver ozone for the termite residence time and the termite vacation time.

Thus the present invention is well adapted to carry out the objectives and attain the ends and advantages mentioned above as well as those inherent therein. While presently preferred embodiments have been described for purposes of this disclosure numerous changes and modifications will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. Such changes and modifications are encompassed within the spirit of this invention as defined by the claims.

