---

title: Image enhancement system and method
abstract: A method and system for imaging information comprising at least one processor for processing information; a light source for illuminating first and second locations; a spatial receiver located at the second location for receiving the illuminating light comprising an array of pixel locations for detecting high resolution spatial information concerning the illuminating light; the spatial receiver being operatively connected, to the at least one processor and operating to transmit high resolution spatial information correlated to specific intervals of time to the processor; the at least one receiver operatively connected to the processor(s) and operative to receive light reflected from a subject and operating to transmit low resolution spatial information to the processor correlated to specific intervals of time; the processor operating to correlate a response by the at least one receiver with spatial information derived from the spatial receiver at correlating time intervals to create a high resolution image.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08811768&OS=08811768&RS=08811768
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08811768
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120522
---
This application is a Continuation In part application of application Ser. No. 13 247 470 entitled System and Method for Image Enhancement ARL 11 03 by R. Meyers K. Deacon filed Sep. 28 2011 and application Ser. No. 13 198 133 entitled Method and System for Non line of sight Imaging ARL 10 31 filed Aug. 4 2011 and issued on Feb. 12 2013 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 373 107 which in turn claims priority of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 819 602 entitled Method and System for LIDAR Utilizing Quantum Properties filed Jun. 21 2010 ARL 09 35 and issued on Aug. 14 2012 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 242 428 which in turn claims priority of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 330 401 U.S. Pat. No. 7 812 303 ARL07 33 entitled Method and System for Creating an Image Using Quantum Properties of Light Based Upon Spatial Information From a Second Light Beam Which Does not Illuminate the Subject filed Dec. 8 2008 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 993 792 filed Dec. 6 2007. The present application through U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 198 133 ARL 10 31 entitled Method and System for Non line of sight Imaging and U.S. application Ser. No. 12 819 602 ARL 09 35 entitled Method and System for LIDAR Utilizing Quantum Properties filed Jun. 21 2010 also claims priority of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 343 384 filed Dec. 23 2008 entitled Method and System for Quantum Imaging Using Entangled Photons Pairs now U.S. Pat. No. 7 847 234 issued Dec. 7 2010 ALR 09 15 . The present application through application Ser. No. 13 198 133 claims the benefit of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 837 668 ARL 07 33D entitled Method and System for Creating an Image Using the Quantum Properties of Sound or Quantum Particles filed Jul. 16 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 053 715 which is a divisional application of U.S. Pat. No. 7 812 303. All of the patent applications and patents mentioned in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference.

The embodiments herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

Image processing is a form of signal processing for which the input is an image such as for example a photograph or video frame and the output is either an image or series of images or a set of characteristics or parameters related to the image or series of images . Forms of image processing include for example face detection feature detection medical image processing computer vision extraction of information from an image by a computer microscope image processing etc.

Image resolution relates to the detail that an image possesses. For satellite images the resolution generally correlates to the area represented by each pixel. Generally speaking an image is considered to be more accurate and detailed as the area represented by each pixel is decreased. As used herein the term images include digital or analog images film images and or other types of images. When an image is captured by a monochrome camera a single charge coupled device CCD or complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS sensor is used to form an image via the light intensity projected onto the sensor. Cameras taking pictures from great distances such as aerial photos may not obtain detailed information about the subject matter. Also the taking of photographs may be subject to motion of the camera and or jitter. Consequently subtle or detail information are not present in the images.

Quantum imaging is a relatively new science that is developing new technology such as Quantum Ghost Imaging QGI to exploit quantum optical information. The imaging is adaptable to adverse imaging situations and there is a benefit to exploiting quantum optical information to image objects through partially obscuring media i.e. optical turbulence obstructions smoke and fog. Imaging through obscuring media is difficult such as the difficulty of driving in foggy weather.

Quantum entanglement is a quantum mechanical phenomenon in which the quantum states of two or more quantum particles are linked together such that the quantum state of one quantum particle appears to interact with its counterpart even though the individual quantum particles may be spatially separated. This apparent interconnection leads to correlations between observable physical properties of remote systems since the interaction of the remote system with quantum state of one of a pair can be observed though observation of the counterpart. For example according to quantum mechanics the spin of a quantum particle is indeterminate until such time as some physical intervention is made to measure the spin which in general could equally be spin up or spin down. However when two members of a spin entangled pair are measured they will either be correlated or anti correlated using spin measurements regardless of the distance between the two particles. It is normally taught in quantum theory that no hidden variable theory can account for these results of quantum mechanics. The statistics of multiple measurements must generally relate to an inequality called Bell s inequality which is violated both by quantum mechanical theory and experimental results.

The non classical two photon interaction or quantum entanglement was described by Albert Einstein et al. Einstein Podolsky Rosen hereinafter Einstein et al. paradox Can Quantum Mechanical Description of Physical Reality Be Considered Complete Physical Review Volume 47 May 15 1935 pgs. 777 800 The paradox of quantum entanglement as described therein relates to the concept that as a result of the process of measurement of a first system using quantum mechanics two different physical quantities are obtainable in the second system despite the fact that at the time of the measurements the two systems no longer interact and the second system is not disturbed in any way by the first. Einstein et al were unable to reconcile this quantum mechanical description of reality with the so called classical physics determination that no real change can take place in the second system as a consequence of anything that may be done to the first system after the two systems no longer interact.

The theoretical work reported by Klyshko in Combined EPR and Two Slit Experiments Interference of Advanced Waves Physics Letters A Volume 132 number 6.7 pp. 299 304 1988 see also Soy. Phys. Usp. 31 74 suggested a non classical two photon interaction could exist.

The first two photon imaging experiment was reported by Pittman et al. in Optical Imaging by Means of Two photon Quantum Entanglement Physical Review A Vol. 52 No. 5 November 1995. According to the Pittman article a two photon optical imaging experiment was performed to test the two particle entanglement as described by Albert Einstein et al. referenced above to determine if there was a correlation in position and in momentum for an entangled two photon system using test beam or path and reference beam or path photon pairs. Specifically an aperture placed in front of a fixed detector was illuminated by a signal beam through a convex lens. A sharp magnified image of the aperture was found in the coincidence counting rate when a mobile detector was scanned in the transverse plane of the reference beam at a specific distance in relation to the lens. The experiment was named ghost imaging due to its surprising nonlocal feature.

Additional experiments are reported in Pittman et al. Optical Imaging by Means of Two Photon Entanglement Phys. Rev. A Rapid Comm. Vol. 52 R3429 1995 and ghost interference by Strekalov et al Observation of Two Photon Ghost Interference and Diffraction Phys. Rev. Lett. Vol. 74 3600 1995 which together stimulated the foundation of quantum imaging in terms of multi photon geometrical and physical optics.

The above publications are merely examples of the development and attempt to understand the science of quantum mechanics as it relates to photons. The present invention in effect uses similar principles and extensions thereof relating to quantum interactions.

An embodiment of the present invention enhances or increases the image quality of an object or scene as seen or recorded by a detector. When a low quality detector is aimed at an object a high quality image is generated using the quantum properties of light. A low quality detector picks up quantum information on the object shape and its temporal relations to reference fields acting as a collection of bucket detectors that do not individually contain spatial information. The reference fields are recorded by a high resolution imager CCD camera etc. that images the source of light that illuminates the target object.

Current imaging methods are limited to the quality of the detector looking at the object being imaged. A preferred embodiment generates an improved quality image of the object without the object being imaged in high resolution directly. The preferred method may be used in connection with photographs taken during turbulent conditions. The current invention may be further directed towards overcoming a limitation that exists in current quantum ghost imaging embodiments wherein there exists a lack of a means to accurately direct the bucket detector or detectors to receive photons from a distant subject.

A preferred methodology comprises the following steps not necessarily in sequential order providing a series of low resolution frames of a given region of interest and a series of high resolution images of a light source determining the value of each pixel at each location within each high resolution frame and within each low resolution frame to form first and second arrays respectively of pixel values determining the product of the first array of pixel values and the second array of pixel values determining the sum of the products by adding together the products of first array of pixel values and second array of pixel values for a series of frames determining the average of the sum of products by dividing the sum of products by the number of frames in the series of frames to form an average high resolution frame times low resolution pixel product determining the average value of each pixel at each pixel location for the series of high resolution frames to form a third array of average pixel values determining the average values at each pixel location for the series of low resolution frames to form a fourth array and for each pixel location in the low resolution frame 

A preferred embodiment is directed to a system of enhancing low resolution images by using high resolution images of the illuminating source that illuminates the low resolution images comprising at least one processor a high resolution spatial detector an array of pixel locations a light source which emits entangled photons pairs the first photons of the photon pairs being reflected off a target to into an array of pixel locations to create a series of low resolution images the second photons of the photon pairs being inputted into a high resolution spatial detector the second photons not being reflected from or passing through the target coincidence circuitry that transmits the measurements from the array of pixel locations and the high resolution spatial detector to the at least one processor at specific instances in time whereby the at least one processor enhances the low resolution images recorded at the array of pixel locations using the first photons by combining the low resolution measurements with the high resolution measurements detected by the high resolution spatial detector using the second photons.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. For example when referring first and second photons in a photon pair these terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to other elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below. Furthermore the term outer may be used to refer to a surface and or layer that is farthest away from a substrate.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

A preferred embodiment system for image enhancement comprises at least one processor and at least one memory operatively associated with the at least one processor. As illustrated in a preferred methodology for resolution improvement performed by the at least one processor comprises the following steps not necessarily in the order recited 

Note that the steps in are comparable to the numbered boxes in as denoted by the reference to Box   correlating to the Box number of .

Referring now to in accordance with a preferred methodology in Box a series or collection of high resolution measurements or frames of the illuminating light source which may be for example the sun are inputted into the memory or input of a processor or image processor. As used herein the terminology processor or image processor as used in the following claims includes a computer multiprocessor CPU minicomputer microprocessor or any machine similar to a computer or processor which is capable of processing algorithms.

In Box using the input from Box the frame data or value of each pixel at each pixel location is determined for each frame. In Box the pixel values in the low resolution set of measurements Pis determined. The low resolution frames may comprise photographs of the same region of interest. The region of interest may be a scene landscape an object a subject person or thing. Where the low resolution source is a low resolution camera the value of a pixel correlates to a bucket value determination and correlates to the light intensity measured by the detector. In the case of an electronic display formed by pixels the intensity of each pixel value at each pixel location Pis determined. At Box the values in Box are multiplied by the values determined in Box . Box represents the Frame Data PProduct. Inasmuch as the Boxes and are arrays of pixel values the Box Product is also an array of values. At Box the products of Box are repeatedly calculated for each frame in a selected plurality of frames and summed together. As an example one hundred frames may be selected. At Box the summation Box Products for the determined in Box is divided by the number of frames such as for example one hundred to determine the Frame Data PProducts Average for the plurality of frames. The Product Average in Box is an array containing pixel values at each pixel location within the frame.

Box represents the multiplication of Boxes and A to form the Average Frame Data Average PProduct Box which is an array. As shown in the bottom portion of the Average Frame Data Average PProduct is subtracted from the Frame Data PProducts Average to form the intermediate Gij Image of Box . In Box the sum of the intermediate Gij Images for the frames N is calculated to produce the final composite image.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention comprises multiple photo sensor buckets scanned or in an array and high resolution images of the illuminating light source. Depending on the object and the light source that it is scattering and reflecting it is possible that light is scattering or reflecting from any location on the subject such that any or all of the photo sensors in the array has a probability of measuring one or more photons of light. A low resolution camera can be used as the multiple photo sensor bucket array. This invention demonstrates that a higher resolution Gimage of the target can be produced using high resolution images of the illumination source coupled with information from the multiple photo sensor bucket array. Use of the multiple photo sensor bucket array can improve the convergence rate of the high resolution Gimage. Each photo sensor in the multiple photo sensor bucket array may measure light scattered and reflected from distinct portions of the target object with appropriate optics that images the subject onto the multiple photo sensor bucket array.

A concept of the present invention is that if the nonspatial information resolving single pixel bucket detector that measures light from the target object that is typically used for Gimaging was replaced with a low resolution spatial information resolving device such as a Charge Coupled Device CCD camera and the detector that measures the light from the source of illumination is a high resolution spatial information resolving device i.e. a high resolution CCD then one could use the techniques of Gimaging to generate an image that would be at the resolution and quality of the high resolution device using the extra information measured by the low resolution target object detector. This may be accomplished by treating each nonspatial information resolving pixel of the low resolution detector as a separate bucket measurement to create a Gimage. The generation of Gimages is performed over the entire set of pixels of the low resolution camera and each low resolution Gimage is accumulated into a composite Gimage that provides the final result. It should be noted that prior to generating a low resolution pixel Gimage the low resolution pixel value can be tested to determine by some metric if a Gimage should be computed using that low resolution pixel i.e. an option includes not computing a Gimage if all the values at that low resolution pixel are 0 or below some threshold value.

Another preferred embodiment uses a single bucket detector to scan over different areas of a target. At each step of the scan a Gimage would be computed and accumulated into a composite Gimage for all positions that the detector scanned.

A third preferred embodiment utilizes the concept occurring when a set of random or pseudo random pixels of the multiple photo sensor bucket array measure light from the target subject. This random set of pixels may be different from one measurement time to another measurement time and these sets of random bucket pixels are used to compute sets of Gimages that are accumulated into a higher resolution and higher quality composite Gimage.

It should be noted that the calculation of the Gimage may be accomplished by using optimization methods such as Compressive Sensing techniques.

Shown in is a laser that sends light through a thermalizing element which creates a light pattern. A beam splitter is used to split the beam from the laser into a target path A and a reference path B. The pattern of the beam is recorded by a charge coupled device CCD or the like which records spatial information concerning the light pattern as discussed more fully in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 330 401 hereby incorporated by reference. In its simplest terms CCD is a device for the movement of electrical charge from the detector area to an area where the charge can be manipulated for example conversion into a digital value. CCDs may be implemented as shift registers that move charge between capacitive bins in the device. The CCD device may be made up of semiconductors arranged in such a way that the electric charge output of one semiconductor charges an adjacent one. The CCD device may be integrated with an image sensor such as a photoelectric device to produce the charge that is being read for digital imaging. The CCD device may optionally be a camera photodetector array or a photographic device capable of imaging the beam pattern B. The beam pattern comprising the spatial information concerning the light beam B is sent to computer . Light Beam A is directed to the target and the returned and scattered light is collected by a first detector or sensor . Detector may be a plurality of bucket detectors or any kind of detectors which have the capability of detecting a photon strike. Detectors may be of a large variety of photo detectors well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. A feature of the preferred embodiments of is that the detectors individually need not record spatial information regarding the target . However cumulatively spatial information is derived although at low resolution. The spatial information derived by spatial detector is transmitted to the computer which combines and correlates this spatial information with the coincidence data received from detectors . For example the data recorded by detectors may be transmitted to computer in a form resembling that depicted in for example where roughly 16 bucket measurements are represented.

The spatial information from detector is combined with the coincidence information from the detectors in computer . Computer may be a microprocessor processor multiprocessor CPU mainframe or any computing element capable of combining the spatial information from the detector with the coincidence information from detectors . Further description of the coincidence detection feature is found in U.S. Pat. No. 7 536 012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 330 401 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference. Since the photonic information detected by each particular detector need not encompass spatial information but simply indicate the occurrence of a photon returned from the target this capability facilitates the use of the preferred embodiment systems in environments in which the returned photons may be impacted by environmental conditions such as fog smoke atmospheric particles and the like.

A quantum photon mathematical equation will project the reference light intensity from the CCD . This will be combined with bucket photon information such as that exemplified in for an ensemble of pulses to produce coincidence measurements needed for ghost imaging. The terminology ghost relates to the feature that the spatial information is not reflected from the target but is either derived from the modulation of the laser beam not shown or the spatial information obtained through the use of beam splitter and detector which records spatial information from a beam which has not seen or illuminated the target.

By way of example correlates to the image as produced using the methodology described in FIG. 5A of U.S. Pat. No. 7 812 303 ARL 07 33 and correlates to an image produced through to the processing stage as depicted at Box of .

As further examples of image processing according to the methodology of the present invention is an image produced as represented at Box and correlates to the image produced when the process reaches Box .

As further examples of image processing according to the methodology of the present invention is a low resolution image correlating to Box of where blocks of 2 2 pixels are processed together. is 1 by 1 a spatially averaged set of pixels of the target subject which correlates to an equivalent high resolution image.

As described above generally speaking the progression of image stages in are represented in the presentation and comparison of images in in order to demonstrate that high resolution images are producible from low resolution images using the principles of the present invention.

The preferred embodiments of the present invention described herein are based upon the calculation of a G ghost image for each bucket detector over the set of all bucket detectors that comprise the low resolution target object detector however the present invention is not limited to the specifics of the embodiments disclosed. Each of the intermediate Gimages are summed into a final composite image of the target object

A ghost or Gimage as used herein may be mathematically expressed as a result of a convolution between the aperture function amplitude distribution function of the object A and a function like second order correlation function G 1 where G d m and are 2D vectors of the transverse coordinate in the object plane and the image plane respectively and m is the magnification factor. The term function as used herein relates to the Dirac delta function which is a mathematical construct representing an infinitely sharp peak bounding unit area expressed as x that has the value zero everywhere except at x 0 where its value is infinitely large in such a way that its total integral is 1. The function characterizes the perfect point to point relationship between the object plane and the image plane. If the image comes with a constant background as in this experiment the second order correlation function G in Eq. 1 must be composed of two parts 2 where Gis a constant. The value of Gdetermines the visibility of the image. One may immediately connect Eq. 2 with the Gfunction of thermal radiation 3 where GG Gis a constant and G d represents a nonlocal position to position correlation. Although the second order correlation function Gis formally written in terms of Gs as shown in equation 3 the physics are completely different. As we know Gis usually measured by one photodetector representing the first order coherence of the field i.e. the ability of observing first order interference. Here in equation 3 Gmay be measured by independent photodetectors at distant space time points and represents a nonlocal EPR correlation.

The present invention uses as its basis the calculation of a Gghost image for each bucket detector over the set of all bucket detectors that comprise the low resolution target object detector. Each of the intermediate Gimages are summed into a final composite image of the target object Image 4 where indicates a summation operation. Similarly when using Compressive Sensing CS techniques the R term of Eq. 9 is computed for each bucket for an intermediate image and these intermediate images are then summed as show in equation 4 to produce a final image of the target object.

Typically ghost imaging uses two detectors one to observe the light source and the other single pixel or bucket detector to observe the light scattering and reflecting from the target object. 5 where denotes an ensemble average. As used herein and terminology bucket in general means a single pixel detector a detector comprising a plurality or grouping of pixels a low resolution imaging device a low resolution scanning detector or device or the like. The terminology I t means the measurements taken from a single pixel detector a detector comprising a plurality or grouping of pixels a low resolution imaging device a low resolution scanning detector or device or the like.

A relatively new mathematical field named Compressive Sensing CS or Compressive Imaging CI can be used to good effect within the context of Gimaging. The use of compressive techniques in the context of Ghost Imaging was performed by the Katz group see O. Katz et al. Compressive Ghost Imaging Appl Phys. Lett. 95 131110 2009 hereby incorporated by reference who demonstrated a ghost like imaging proposal of Shapiro see J. Shapiro Computational Ghost Imaging Phys. Rev. A 78 061802 R 2008 hereby incorporated by reference .

The use of CS and Compressive Imaging CI herein is based on finding approximate solutions to the integral equations using the Gradient Projection for Sparse Reconstruction GPSR mathematical methodology where 6 and 7 is the object reflectance. The term J is a matrix where the rows are the illumination patterns at time k and the B vector 8 represents the bucket values. In cases where the system is underdetermined too few B then Lconstraints are applied to complete the system and sparseness is used 

The CS computational strategy takes advantage of the fact that it is normally true in images that not all pixels in an image contain new information and the system is said to be sparse on some basis since fewer degrees of freedom are needed to describe the system than the total number of pixels in the image. The parameter in equation 9 is often a constant.

The problem is then solvable using for example an L1 minimization as described further in Compressed Sensing IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY VOL. 52 NO. 4 APRIL 2006 and Gradient Projection for Sparse Reconstruction Application to Compressed Sensing and Other Inverse Problems IEEE J. Sel. Top. in Sig. Proc. 1 586 2007. both of which are hereby incorporated by reference .

In an alternative preferred embodiment when illuminating light source comprises entangled photons in order to resolve the issue of multiple counts i.e. counts originating from background photons the following sequence is preformed 

providing a high speed time stamped series of low resolution frames of a given region of interest from the array of pixel locations 

providing a high speed time stamped series of high resolution images of a light source from the spatial detector 

the high speed time stamped frames being such that there is only one photon counted or measured on a pixel in both the low resolution frame and the high resolution frame per unit time if more than one pixel is counted the frame of pixels is discarded This is to ensure proper discrimination of entangled photons from background light. 

determining the value of each pixel at each location per unit time within each high resolution frame to form first arrays of pixel values 

determining the value of each pixel at each location per unit time within each low resolution frame to form a second array of pixel values 

Applications of the present invention improve the ability to image through obscuring media e.g. smoke or clouds which remains a problem in a variety of fields such as satellite imaging analysts firefighters drivers oceanographers astronomers military personnel and medical personnel. The present invention improves the ability to improve resolution in each of these exemplary instances and represents an opportunity to derive more information from images and presumably the decisions made from such images. By way of example improved resolution in x ray or endoscopy medical imagery facilitates lower radiation dosing and diagnosis of abnormal morphologies earlier than currently possible with conventional imaging methodologies. Conventional imaging techniques have to a large extent arrived at the theoretical limits of image resolution owing to wavelength limited resolution optical element distortions and the reflective interaction between photons and an object to be imaged.

As used herein the terminology Gtechnique means where you have two measurements where the actual image is the convolution of the object function F d A G where the object function A is convolved with the correlations between two spatially distinct detections.

As used in the following the terminology photon light source means or is defined to include thermal photon light partially coherent and entangled photon light. As used in the following the terminology media means or is defined to include vacuum air water turbid fluids turbulence fluids soft tissues and partially transmissive solids.

As used herein the terminology subject or object or target may include a photograph a thing a person animate or inanimate subject a plurality of objects the ground ground covering e.g. grass a localized piece or pieces of the environment surface physical entity or entities or anything that can be observed.

The invention is not restricted to the illustrative examples described above. Examples are not intended as limitations on the scope of the invention. Methods apparatus compositions and the like described herein are exemplary and not intended as limitations on the scope of the invention. Changes therein and other uses will occur to those skilled in the art. The scope of the invention is defined by the scope of the claims.

Patents patent applications or publications mentioned in this specification are incorporated herein by object to the same extent as if each individual document was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by object.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments are intended to reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

