---

title: Device attribute-customized metadata for browser users
abstract: An embodiment of the disclosed system provides the user of a computing device with information concerning the expected usefulness of an item, such as a hyperlink, within a network resource, such as a search result webpage, with the expected usefulness information based at least in part on an attribute of the user's computing device. For example, the system may provide the user with information identifying a particular website as poorly suited for the user's device, based on data that the system collected identifying an aggregate bounce-back rate from computing devices with a similar attribute to the user's computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08898297&OS=08898297&RS=08898297
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08898297
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120817
---
A variety of tools and services exist for enabling network users to view information or metadata regarding the web pages web sites and other network resources they access. For example a variety of browser toolbars exist that retrieve and display information regarding the page or site currently being viewed. This information may include for example a traffic ranking of the site a categorization of the site and a list of related sites or pages. Tools also exists for enabling a user to prior to following a link view a preview such as a thumbnail image of the page to which the link points. The preview is typically displayed when the user hovers a mouse pointer over the link.

Although these tools are sometimes helpful they frequently do not provide users with sufficiently useful information for making informed decisions about whether to access particular pages or other network resources. In addition many existing tools require the user to download and install a special browser plug in or only provide metadata for a very limited set of pages or sites.

Various features are disclosed for generating and presenting users with resource metadata regarding the usefulness or predicted usefulness of particular pages sites and or other network resources. The metadata may be based partly or wholly on the monitored browsing behaviors of many users including behaviors reflective of whether particular resources were useful to the users. The metadata may in some cases be personalized for particular users based for example on their browsing environments or contexts. For example the metadata presented to a smartphone user regarding a particular link may reflect a determination of whether the target resource is well suited for display on smartphones generally or on the user s particular model of smartphone. As another example if a user has a relatively low bandwidth connection the metadata presented to the user for a particular link may reflect whether the target resource is suitable for viewing over a low bandwidth connection. The type or types of metadata presented for particular links may vary depending upon the type or category of the target resource.

The metadata may be presented in association with specific links such that the user can consider the metadata in deciding whether to follow a link. In some embodiments the metadata may be injected onto the page by an intermediary system or proxy server such that no special metadata client is needed on the user s device. Embodiments are also disclosed in which a special browser or browser plugin retrieves the metadata from a metadata service. In yet other embodiments an Internet search engine system may embed metadata on search results pages for particular search results links included on the page.

According to one embodiment the system provides the user with metadata related to the expected usefulness of various items while using the web browser. For example referring to a service provides the user with a popup panel with metadata when the user mouses over a hyperlink in the illustrated search results as shown for two representative hyperlinks and in the drawing. It will be understood that the illustration of shows a cursor icon at two different locations representing two different periods of time. The illustrated embodiment provides the user with a variety of usefulness metadata for both hyperlink items . The system thereby permits the user to efficiently identify that a lower ranked search result has a higher expected usefulness than a higher ranked search result shown in this example. In certain embodiments the system personalizes the usefulness metadata based on a user identity user profile browsing environment past activity and or demographic information. Various other types of metadata may additionally or alternatively be presented including metadata reflective of suitability of the target resource for viewing on the user s particular computing device as may be determined based on behaviors of users with similar devices .

Metadata panels or popovers of the type shown in may be added to pages including but not limited to search result pages in various way. As one example a proxy server or other intermediary system may during the retrieval of a page augment the page with JavaScript or other browser executable code and associated metadata for displaying the panels in response to mouse over events. As another example the browser or a browser plug in may retrieve from a metadata service the metadata associated with particular links on a page being viewed by the user and may make this metadata available for viewing. As another example and as mentioned above an Internet search engine system could include metadata of the type shown in on the search results pages it generates. The metadata may also be presented to users without the use of panels or popovers for example as shown in discussed below the metadata may be displayed inline with other page content.

Various embodiments of the disclosed system use one or more metrics related to usefulness metadata. These usefulness metrics provide different ways of measuring an expected usefulness of an item such as a webpage that is electronically referenced in a network resource such as being the target of a hyperlink within that webpage. As one example the embodiment shown in presents usefulness metadata based on total usefulness score visit frequency visit duration social media usage and bookmarking rate. Visit frequency in this example refers to a measurement of the number of user visits to the item in this case the website that is the target of the hyperlink. For example a site associate with the hyperlink Anteater Pet Owners has a High visit frequency while the site associated with the hyperlink Anteaters WikiWiki Superwiki has a Medium visit frequency . In the present example this indicates that the system stores data recording more visits from users to the Anteater Pet Owners webpage than to the Anteaters WikiWiki Superwiki webpage.

One example of an item that is the subject of metadata is a particular webpage such as an HTML file accessible at a specific URL. Another example of an item that is the subject of metadata is a more general network location such as an Internet domain address including all sub locations such as HTML files accessible at various URLs within that domain address.

As another example an item may be a specific hyperlink encoded in a webpage rather than the destination of the hyperlink. In this example if webpage A includes a hyperlink to webpage C and webpage B also includes a hyperlink to webpage C the system provides different metadata associated with the usefulness of the hyperlink on webpage A as compared to the metadata associated with the usefulness of the hyperlink on webpage B. For example an embodiment may store usefulness metadata indicating that a hyperlink from a cooking recipes page to a cookbook review website is more useful than is a hyperlink from a photography website to the same cookbook review website. This discrepancy may for example be based on an automated observation that users who access the target site from the cookbook review site tend to spend more time browsing it than users who access the cookbook review site from the photography site. In contrast another embodiment stores usefulness metadata for webpage C itself and presents the same usefulness metadata for a hyperlink on webpage A as it does for a hyperlink on webpage B when both refer to webpage C. In yet another embodiment a combination is used where usefulness metadata is based on both the general usefulness of the webpage targeted by the hyperlink as well as the specific webpage that the hyperlink is embedded within.

Referring again to the illustrated embodiment includes functionality related to selective display of usefulness metadata. For example the present embodiment may provide usefulness metadata pop up panels in some situations and not in others. The system may detect that the web browser is viewing a network resource provided by a search engine and may provide usefulness metadata pop up panels when the user is viewing search results but not provide usefulness metadata pop up panels at other times. In this example the system detects the current address being accessed by the browser. If the browser is currently viewing a network address within a domain recognized by the system the system provides usefulness metadata pop up panels. In another embodiment the system provides usefulness metadata unless the user is viewing a network resource that the system has identified as being excluded from usefulness metadata pop up panels. In another embodiment the system determines whether it has access to metadata for the target of a link currently being displayed.

The present embodiment also provides usefulness metadata based on visit duration. A network resource such as website that users spend longer periods of time viewing may be correlated with being a more useful network resource item. This may occur because the website or other item includes a larger quantity of content a higher usefulness of content a more useful format and or better performance such as bandwidth for delivery. On the other hand if a particular item receives very short visits that may indicate lower usefulness. The illustrated embodiment may gather visit duration data through one or more approaches. For example a software service may detect the amount of time that a network browser was displaying a particular network resource such as a website. As another example a browser plug in may detect the amount of time that a particular browser tab was in focus or what portion of a webpage a user has spent the most time viewing. As with other behavioral metrics described herein visit duration for particular sites pages and other resources may be monitored both generally and for particular classes of users and devices e.g. smartphone users tablet users PC users users of particular demographics users of a particular region etc. such that personalized or customized metadata may be presented to users.

Social media usage is another usefulness metadata metric shown in the embodiment of . The system may associate a user s social media actions related to a particular network resource or item as indicating usefulness. For example a user may click a Facebook like button on a webpage in order to like the webpage with their Facebook account. Similarly a user may show interest in a network resource using their Google account by clicking a 1 button associated with the network resource. As another example a user may transmit a Twitter tweet containing a link to a network resource such as a webpage URL an image URL or an abbreviated URL associated with the network resource.

It will be understood that in various embodiments usefulness may be measured at the granular level of a network resource such as a webpage. Additionally or alternatively usefulness may be measured at a more granular level of an item referenced in or by a network resource with examples including 1 an image referenced in the HTML source of a webpage 2 a particular hyperlink from one webpage to another 3 a portion of a webpage and 4 a particular post in an online forum discussion. As yet another example usefulness may be measured at a less granular level such as at an address domain level subdomain level directory or subdirectory or some other scope. For example some embodiments may detect the current URL of a client browser application or detect particular terms having been searched for . This may be used to provide usefulness metadata for some or all search results or other examples of network resources.

The embodiment of also presents usefulness metadata based on a bookmarking rate. For example the system may maintain data corresponding to the frequency or total quantity of times that users bookmark a particular network resource. Examples of bookmarking including adding a webpage as a bookmark to a network browser adding a webpage to a bookmark service account such as del.icio.us and adding a bookmark to a synchronized Google bookmarking account.

The present embodiment additionally provides a total usefulness score. In the present embodiment total usefulness is determined based on a combination of individual usefulness metrics such as visit frequency visit duration social media usage and bookmarking rate. A total usefulness score may be calculated using a weighted average algorithm or some other determination.

Another embodiment of a system providing usefulness metadata determines usefulness based at least in part on comparing bounce back vs. link out rates in user behavior. In such an example a bounce back event occurs when a user views a network resource and then returns back to their previous network browsing location. By comparison a link out event occurs when a user views a network resource and then follows a network link to another network resource. The system may consider a high ratio of bounce backs as compared to link outs for a particular resource as indicating that the resource has a lower expected usefulness.

In another embodiment a system for providing usefulness metadata may additionally or alternatively use other usefulness metrics. For example a system may gather data based on local user actions relative to the network browser including zooming in and or out from portions of a network resource panning to portions of a network resource printing the network resource saving a copy of the network resource to the user s local computer placing an application such as a web browser into a reading mode while viewing the network resource and or other actions occurring within a network browser which might not generate any network traffic.

As is discussed in greater detail elsewhere in the present disclosure some embodiments use a local service operating on the user s computing device to gather behavioral data that is used to generate the usefulness metadata. In some embodiments a gathering service is used in order to detect and record such local user input activities. In other embodiments usefulness metadata is gathered at a location between the source of the network resource for which usefulness metadata is being gathered and the client computer device. For example a proxy server may act as an intermediary between the client and destination Internet sites and may gather usefulness metadata based on that proxy behavior.

The embodiment in displays usefulness metadata metrics using a descriptive scale using terms such as High Medium Moderate and Short. . Alternatively or additionally other representations may be used to provide information regarding expected usefulness. For example quantitative values such as a total score may be provided. As another example the system may provide usefulness metadata in the form of a rating scale from one to five. Such a rating may be presented numerically graphically e.g. a 4 out of 5 star rating using images or through some other representation.

Referring to there is shown an embodiment of a system for providing usefulness metadata to the user of a computing device in addition to elements of the network environment in which the system may operate. The client browser in this example is a network browser such as Amazon Silk Google Chrome Apple Safari Opera Mozilla Firefox or Microsoft Internet Explorer. The client browser in the illustrated embodiment includes a client usefulness metadata provision service that provides usefulness metadata to the user. The usefulness metadata provision service may provide the usefulness metadata by providing a modified user interface such as the user interface of which includes usefulness metadata pop up panels in response to mouse over events.

The usefulness metadata provision service may operate as a default component of the client browser . As another example the client usefulness metadata provision service is a plug in add on or extension to the client browser . As another example the client usefulness metadata provision service operates as a separate process and interacts with the client browser through an API. As another example the client usefulness metadata provision service operates as a proxy service on the client device and modifies a network resource s source data before it is received by the client browser . For example a local proxy client usefulness metadata provision service may inject HTML formatted content into an HTML network resource transmitted to the client browser before that HTML content reaches the client browser.

The client usefulness metadata provision service of the illustrated embodiment obtains usefulness metadata from a usefulness metadata retrieval service accessible through a network . In one example the network is the Internet. There may be a number of client computing devices with client usefulness metadata provision services which obtain usefulness metadata from a single usefulness metadata retrieval service . In the example of the usefulness metadata provision service transmits one or more requests to the usefulness metadata retrieval service in order to obtain usefulness metadata from the usefulness metadata retrieval service .

In one example the client usefulness metadata provision service transmits a request to the usefulness metadata retrieval service using an on demand basis. The client usefulness metadata provision service detects a user input action associated with a particular item referenced by a network resource. For example the client usefulness metadata provision service may detect a mouse over event in which a cursor is positioned over or near an item such as a hyperlink. The client usefulness metadata provision service may transmit a request to the usefulness metadata retrieval service the request identifying the hyperlink in response to the user input action. The usefulness metadata retrieval service may provide the client usefulness metadata provision service with usefulness metadata in response to the request and the client usefulness metadata provision service may provide the usefulness metadata to the user for example through a user interface. This type of on demand request for usefulness metadata may reduce the total number of requests but may introduce some latency between a user input action and the user system providing the user with usefulness metadata.

In another example the client usefulness metadata provision service obtains usefulness metadata on a pre fetch basis. For example the client usefulness metadata provision service may detect that the client browser has loaded a new network resource such as a webpage. The client usefulness metadata provision service may identify one or more items referenced in the network service such as hyperlinks corresponding to search results. The client usefulness metadata provision service may transmit one or more requests for client usefulness metadata to the usefulness metadata retrieval service . The client usefulness metadata provision service may then cause the usefulness metadata received in response to those requests to be stored on the computing device such as in a local usefulness metadata cache. The client usefulness metadata service then detects a client input event such as a mouse over and obtains the stored client usefulness metadata from the local cache rather than transmit a request to the usefulness metadata retrieval service in response to the input action.

The usefulness metadata retrieval service shown in is in communication with a usefulness metadata data store . Examples of usefulness metadata data stores include databases flat files file systems directory structures or other data storage system. For example the usefulness metadata store may be a SQL database and the usefulness metadata retrieval service may communicate with the usefulness metadata store using database queries.

As shown the usefulness metadata data store includes usefulness metadata associated with a number of network resources. It will be understood that in other examples usefulness metadata is associated with other items such as a file particular hyperlink forum post product or news article. The usefulness metadata data store shown in maintains an association between a particular resource and usefulness metadata associated with that resource. For example the usefulness metadata data store stores usefulness metadata associated with the resource anteaters.wikiwki.com . The usefulness metadata may be generated and or updated periodically or continuously based on the latest behavioral data collected regarding user actions. In some examples more recent behavioral data e.g. the last day s worth and or the last hour s worth may be given more weight than less recent behavioral data.

That usefulness metadata includes a visit frequency score a visit duration score and a social media score. In the usefulness metadata associated with these usefulness metrics are stored in numeric form with values of 171 for visit frequency score 352 for visit duration score and 41 for social media score. These numeric values correspond to qualitative values provided to the user in for the Anteaters WikiWiki Superwiki search result . In other embodiments usefulness metadata is stored in other formats and or value scales. In the present example a total usefulness score may be calculated dynamically from stored usefulness metadata values. In other examples the usefulness metadata data store stores a total usefulness score.

In one embodiment the usefulness metadata retrieval service is a software service configured to establish a TCP socket in response to a TCP SYN request from a client usefulness metadata provision service and subsequently transmit usefulness metadata in the form of an extensible markup language over the TCP socket.

A client behavioral data gather service is also shown in the embodiment of . The client behavioral data gather service gathers behavioral metadata on the client device based on user actions. Examples of a client behavioral data gather service include a plug in add on or extension to the client browser . In one embodiment the client behavioral data gather service monitors user activity for events relative to resource usefulness. For example the client behavioral data gather service may detect a browser navigation action such as selecting a hyperlink or navigating a browser back to a previously viewed network resource. The client behavioral data gather service may determine the duration of a particular visit to a network resource such as through calculating the difference in time from when a client browser transmitted an HTTP request for a network resource until the client browser was navigated back to its previously viewed network resource. The client behavioral data gather service may also detect user input actions relevant to usefulness determinations. For example the client behavioral data gather service may detect that the client browser has been placed into a reading mode optimized for text viewing. The client behavioral data gather service may also detect that the client browser has recorded a network resource address as a bookmark.

The usefulness metadata gather service in the present example transmits the gathered usefulness metadata to the usefulness metadata retrieval service. The usefulness metadata retrieval service stores the usefulness metadata in the usefulness metadata data store so that it can later be retrieved and provided to users. The system may also include a usefulness metadata aggregation service that aggregates and analyzes usefulness metadata in the usefulness metadata data store . For example the usefulness metadata aggregation service may calculate bulk and or average usefulness metadata measures based on usefulness metadata gathered from a number of client computing devices. The aggregation may be performed by analyzing various usefulness data associated with a common network resource or related network resources. For example the system may aggregate usefulness metadata by averaging a visit duration score based on the visit durations of many different users as gathered on many different computing devices. In certain embodiments separate metadata scores or metrics may be generated for different classes of users or user devices. Alternatively or additionally the system may provide customized usefulness metadata based on a user s own past behavior instead of or in addition to usefulness metadata based on aggregated behavior of other users. For example the system may provide the user with the option of allowing the system to collect behavioral data that identifies characteristics of the user s typical browsing behavior such as bounce back rates click through rates and other behaviors. The system may then inform the user that a particular resource such as a hyperlink is expected to be of particularly high usefulness for the user specifically.

For example in the illustrated embodiment the search service identifies five search results in a priority order according to a relevance score determined by the search service . These search results are shown in in the relevance order provided by the search service. Referring again to the usefulness metadata store indicates that the resource associated with www.anteaterpetowners.com has a frequency score that is higher than the frequency score of www.anteaters.wikiwiki.com but has a visit duration score and social media score that are each lower than the respective scores of anteaters.wikiwiki.com . In this example the search service does not have access to visit duration data or social media score data. Accordingly the search service provided a search result relevance order based on a visit frequency. Usefulness metadata gathered through client behavioral data gather services operating on numerous client devices indicates that the total expected usefulness of anteater.wikiwiki.com is higher than that of www.anteaterpetowners.com and the system provides the user with information concerning this expected usefulness. Referring to the user may choose to navigate to Anteaters WikiWiki Superwiki rather than Anteater Pet Owners .

Referring to there is shown an embodiment of a system for injecting metadata into content before the content is received by a user s browser . The client browser of the current illustration does not include a service to augment a page with metadata. Instead augmentation is performed by an intermediary system located between the client browser and the content that the client browser requests. For example in the present illustration the intermediary system is located between the client browser and a search service in addition to the content associated pages referenced in a search result. In the present example a network connects the intermediary system to the content. The client browser may also be connected to the intermediary system through a network. In one example the client browser is configured with a tunnel client service that is used to establish a network tunnel connection with the intermediary service .

The intermediary service includes a metadata server that injects metadata into content before the content is received by the client browser . The metadata server gathers user behavioral data and transmits the user behavioral data to a collected behavioral data store . Examples of user behavioral data include information contained in the URL s and URL parameters of user network requests. Other examples of user behavioral data include the frequency of user network requests. For example a high request frequency may indicate an active attempt to locate information.

The intermediary service also includes a metadata generator that analyzes and aggregates collected behavior data from the collected behavior store . The metadata generator may identify averages trends and or patterns in collected behavior data and populate a resource metadata store based on such analysis. For example the metadata generator may identify that visitors to a first website often request a certain second website within one hour of requesting the first one. The system may store usefulness metadata for recommending the second site to visitors considering viewing the first site. In another example the metadata server collects data based on device attributes and stores behavioral data in association with device attribute data so that a user s behavior can be associated with one or more attributes of the device that the user was using. The metadata generator may analyze metadata according to device attributes in order to produce attribute specific metadata as is described in greater detail later.

In another example users may set up accounts with the intermediary system during which they may provide demographic data device data etc. that can be used by the system to assess resource utility for specific classes of users. In other examples information such as demographic information is automatically determined for a user. One example of demographic information that the system may utilize is a user s behavioral similarity to other users. The system may thereby use user clustering in order to predict usefulness for one user based on usefulness to another user. For example a user who has had a high bounce back rate for certain pages may be predicted to find a particular hyperlink unhelpful because other users with similar bounce back characteristics have exhibited behavior indicating that the hyperlink is unhelpful. In yet another example the system identifies and classifies users according to regions such as nation zip code or other regional area and customizes usefulness metadata based on observed aggregated regional characteristics.

The intermediary system may gather behavioral data from one or more sources including 1 collecting behavioral data by logging URL requests in association with information about the users and or user devices 2 receiving behavioral data from special browsers or browser plug ins regarding additional types of user behaviors such as touch screen panning zooming behaviors and eye tracking.

In one example the metadata server injects metadata onto pages as they are being retrieved by browser. In another example the metadata server interacts with a metadata aware browser or browser plugin and serves the metadata to the browsers or plugin for display on pages.

Referring to another embodiment of a system for providing usefulness metadata to the user of a computing device is shown. Here the client browser does not include a client usefulness metadata provision service or client behavioral data gather service as the client browser of has. Instead the system of includes a usefulness metadata injection service located within the network and within the path between the client browser and the search service . For example the usefulness metadata injection service may be a proxy server through which the client browser directs traffic. In another example the usefulness metadata injection service may operate at as a gateway computing device between the computing device operating the client browser and the host computing device operating the search service . A usefulness metadata injection service residing on a gateway device may receive all traffic between the client browser and search service due to its location within a network topology.

A usefulness metadata injection service may alter a network resource before the network resource is received by the client browser in order to provide a user with usefulness metadata information. For example the usefulness metadata injection service may inject portions of HTML and or JavaScript into a search result webpage in order to include usefulness metadata in the search result webpage. This may occur by collecting packets transmitted from the search service to the client browser and reassembling the HTML resource contained in those packets then altering the HTML source code and then transmitting the altered HTML source code to the client browser . As another example the usefulness metadata injection service may inject data related to usefulness metadata into other pages being reviewed and or retrieved by a user. For example the disclosure of U.S. Pat. No. 7 975 020 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein provides one example of how panels or popovers may be added to arbitrary pages in connection with specific links. The usefulness metadata injection service may perform such injection transparently so that the client browser believes the resulting modified search result webpage was transmitted by the search service . For example the usefulness metadata injection service may act as a TCP proxy service and transmit packets to the computing device executing the client browser with those packets containing a source IP address associated with the search service .

The usefulness metadata injection service may also gather usefulness metadata and transmit that usefulness metadata to the usefulness metadata retrieval service . For example the usefulness metadata injection service may gather usefulness metadata related to transmissions from the client browser indicating that the user has performed a social media action indicating some usefulness of a resource. As an example the usefulness metadata injection service may intercept one or more network packets with payload values indicating that the user has indicated that they like a particular website.

Referring to an alternative embodiment is shown. This embodiment also provides usefulness metadata to the user of a network browser . Search results are shown and usefulness metadata is provided in a result usefulness panel . The result usefulness panel appears alongside the search results and aligns usefulness metadata with its corresponding item such as a hyperlink search result. For example usefulness metadata associated with the network resource Anteater Pet Owner is provided directly across from the Anteater Pet Owner search result . The use of a result usefulness panel may provide a user with usefulness metadata in a format that can be viewed and compared quickly. However the result usefulness panel of uses more screen space than do the pop up panels of .

The system may alternatively or additionally provide usefulness metadata in other formats. For example the system may provide usefulness metadata in a browser startup page provided as a homepage and or a browser panel or toolbar area displayed alongside or above a page being viewed. In another example a menu option may cause the system to show metadata for certain kinds of resources such as search result pages but hide it for other resources. In another example the system may detect a user input action such as a multi touch input and provide a metadata overlay in response to the input. In another option the system may modify the content of a resource by color coding hyperlinks according to usefulness. For example hyperlinks of high expected usefulness may be color coded green while hyperlinks of low expected usefulness may be color coded red.

In certain embodiments a system provides metadata for an item referenced by a network resource and the types of metadata provided depends on a category associated with the item. For example referring to an example user interface is displayed including metadata pop up panels for various references in a webpage. An item identification service identifies an item electronically referenced on the page as being the subject of a user action. For example in the item identification service identifies that the user has performed a mouse over action related to a phrase CERN physicists discover particle consistent with Higgs boson . The item identification service identifies that this refers to a news event which is a type of item in the present embodiment. The system provides metadata related to the news event in a metadata popup panel . For example the system lists the news category as being Science with a related hyperlink to other Science related news articles. The system also provides item metadata in the panel concerning the number of other news articles that are related to the Higgs boson discovery news event and links to the most popular of those articles and a list of all such articles. The system may determine metadata such as popularity through gathering and or intercepting user actions and device transmissions related to device requests for news articles that have been categorized as describing the particular news event item.

The system may include categorization data that associates categorization factors with a particular item category. For example keywords may be used to identify articles as likely relating to news events. The system may analyze a network resource such as by parsing HTML source code and identify the presence of keywords. Such identification may be used as a factor making it more likely that the system will categorize the particular event in the news category associated with the factor. As another example the categorization data store may include a listing of domain names associated with a particular category such as a news category. Additionally image recognition factors may be used in order to categorize image items into particular categories.

In the present embodiment the system stores metadata regarding news event items in a metadata store. The system separately identifies multiple unique news event items such as a particular event reported on by multiple news organizations on multiple network servers. In one example the system gathers data from user browsing activity including parsing news article text located at different network locations and heuristically determines whether two articles relate to the same event using keyword matching and word frequency comparisons. The system may also consider a network resource s creation date such as a file s creation metadata date in associating two network resources with the same news event item.

The system may also analyze a URL associated with a network resource in classifying it into one or more item categories. The system may also analyze a URL in order to assign particular metadata to a categorized item. For example after the system has classified an item such as a hyperlink as a news event item the system may analyze a URL associated with the item in order to determine what value to populate a metadata field with such as what news event identification number to use for the item. A news event identification number may uniquely identify a particular news event. In another example the system categorizes an item as a product by storing data associated with a product category and further associates a record corresponding to the item with a unique product identification number corresponding to the product.

The system corresponding to the graphical user interface of provides usefulness metadata related to a network resource the homepage for the European Organization for Nuclear Research . The provided usefulness metadata in the present illustration relates specifically to the destination of the hyperlink rather than to the specific hyperlink itself. In other embodiments different hyperlinks to a single destination are associated with different usefulness metadata. For example the system may record data indicating that visitors to one website find a second website to be more useful as compared to visitors of a third website finding the second website to be less useful.

The present embodiment also provides metadata related to other items that have been categorized as news event items. The system is capable of identifying an image as relating to the Olympics as a news event of a sports category . The system is also capable of identifying a different image as related to candidate sparring within an elections category. Metadata provided for the news item examples include trending information . The system presents metadata indicating whether a particular news event is receiving an increasing amount of attention from users a flat amount of attention from users or a decreasing amount of attention from users. For example the system may determine an attention trend value by comparing historic visit frequency and or visit duration against a more recent quantity of visit frequency and or visit duration. Alternatively or additionally the system may calculate a rate of change for visit frequency and or visit duration.

Referring to another graphical user interface is illustrated with additional metadata provided by the system. In the present illustration the system categorizes an item referenced within a network resource as a product item and provides product metadata based on that categorization. For example the system has identified an image of a cellular phone as being the Ultra Universe 4.2G Cell Phone. The system has classified this item as fitting within a product category. The system gathers and provides different types of metadata for items categorized into the product category than it does for items categorized into other categories. In this example the system provides pricing metadata pricing trends a reference to a list of online retail outlets selling the product an average rating and a reference to reviews for the product . In one example the system obtains pricing data from one or more electronic catalogs. In another example the system includes a product search service that searches for retailers offering the product and then gathers and aggregates pricing information related to those retailers offering of the product.

The system may keep historic pricing information that may be used to determine pricing trend metadata. The illustrated system may also identify a hyperlink associated with the Ultra Universe 4.2G Cell Phone with the product item itself. The system may therefore provide the user with the same product metadata when the system detect a mouse over event for the product image as when the system detects a mouse over event for the product text . The system may identify other images and text as corresponding to the same product despite those images and text appearing on other network resources. The system may therefore provide the same or similar product metadata to a user when the user is viewing an image of the same product in the context of a different network resource.

The present embodiment also classifies certain items as forum items. For example the system has classified a hyperlink as a forum item and provides forum metadata in response to detecting a user input event associated with the hyperlink. The system stores forum metadata including the name of the network forum that the hyperlink is associated with an average number of posts per day on the forum the name of the most helpful poster on the network forum and a hyperlink to a profile page associated with that user and information regarding whether the forum is moderated. The system may scan network resources associated with the network forum in order to gather one or more of these pieces of information. In another example the system may communicate with an application programming interface associated with the network forum in order to obtain forum metadata.

In another embodiment the system provides usefulness metadata based in part on one or more attributes a user computing device. For example the system may provide one set of usefulness metadata related to a hyperlink when the search result and usefulness metadata are provided to a desktop computing device as compared to when the search result and usefulness metadata are provided to a smartphone computing device. Examples of device attributes include display resolution processing power total random access memory available random access memory graphical processing power available network bandwidth and supported network protocols. Other examples of device attributes include the presence or absence of certain software functionality such as Adobe Flash player a Java Runtime Environment Microsoft Silverlight or an HTML5 capable client. Other examples of device attributes include the presence or absence of a particular language pack or font. In one embodiment the system provides metadata for a link where the metadata notifies the user that the target resource of the link is a Flash file or a page including a Flash file and that Flash is not supported by the user s device. In another example the system provides metadata based at least in part on a user s preferred language. For example the system may detect or the user may select a preferred language. The system may identify the primary language used in the target of a particular hyperlink and inform the user of the hyperlink s expected usefulness based on that detected language and the user s preferred language.

Referring to there is shown an embodiment of a system for providing usefulness metadata to the user of a computing device based at least in part on a detected attribute of the computing device. Examples of computing devices include desktop computers laptop computers other personal computers tablets personal digital assistants smartphones console devices smart televisions and gaming consoles. In the present example a mobile computing device includes a client usefulness metadata provision service that provides a user with usefulness metadata consistent with previous discussions including graphical user interface modification. The mobile computing device also includes a device attribute detection service . In this example the device attribute detection service detects one or more attributes of the device that is executing it. For example the device attribute detection service may poll a configuration setting of the computing device may perform an attribute evaluation process on the computing device by simulating a burdensome process or may provide a user interface prompting user to provide certain device attribute information. In one example the system obtains some types of device attributes from the device s URL requests. The system may provide usefulness metadata despite the absence of a client side device attribute detection service.

The present embodiment also includes a usefulness metadata data store . In this example the usefulness metadata store associates a device attribute factor with usefulness metadata. For example the usefulness metadata data store stores data associated with the resource anteaters.wikiwiki.com . That metadata is further organized according to usefulness metadata corresponding to different device attribute factors. The system includes usefulness metadata associated with devices with the attribute factor of having 400 or fewer vertical pixels . The system also includes usefulness metadata associated with devices with the attribute factor of having between 401 and 720 vertical pixels . The system includes usefulness metadata associated with devices with the attribute factor of having 721 or more vertical pixels .

In another example the behaviors of users of particular device types e.g. smartphones iPhones laptops etc. can be monitored in connection with a given resource to assess whether that resource is well suited for display on such devices. As one example if users of smartphones engage in significant zooming panning during viewing of a particular page the system may treat that behavioral data as an indication that the page is not well suited for display on smartphones. As another example the system may monitor users access durations and associate that behavioral data with certain device attributes. For example if users of smartphones have significantly shorter access durations than other users the system may treat that behavioral data as an indication that the page is not well suited for display on smartphones.

In other examples the system organizes usefulness metadata according to more than one device attribute. In another example the system associates a multiplier with a particular device attribute factor. For example the system may store a single total usefulness score for a particular resource and may also store a resolution sub 400vertPx multiplier with a value of 0.5. The system may calculate the total usefulness of the resource for the user of a device with fewer than 400 vertical pixels by multiplying the total usefulness score by the resolution sub 400vertPx multiplier. Other methods such as other mathematical algorithms may additionally or alternatively be used to provide a user with usefulness metadata based at least in part on a device attribute of a computing device.

The embodiment of also stores device independent usefulness metadata. The device independent usefulness metadata is not associated with a particular device attribute. This metadata may be useful to users of many different devices although it may be of less specific use than attribute based usefulness metadata. In one example the device independent usefulness metadata is determined as a function of device specific usefulness metadata. In another example device independent usefulness metadata is gathered from computing devices which do not provide attribute information to the usefulness metadata retrieval service.

In the present example the client usefulness metadata provision service submits a query to the usefulness metadata retrieval service identifying both an item and a computing device attribute associated with the computing device . The usefulness metadata retrieval service retrieves usefulness metadata from the usefulness metadata data store based on both the resource and the device attribute. For example the usefulness metadata provision service may identify the anteaters.wikiwiki.com resource and a vertical pixel resolution of 400. The usefulness metadata retrieval service transmits a query corresponding to those values and responds to the client usefulness metadata provision service s request with metadata indicating a visit frequency score of 92 a visit duration score of 401 and a social media score of 53. The client usefulness metadata provision service may then provide that usefulness metadata to the user. A client usefulness metadata provision service operating on a different device may provide different usefulness metadata associated with the same resource for example due to the device having a different vertical pixel resolution.

Referring to an illustration is shown of a client browser operating on a mobile computing device . The client browser displays a network resource including search results based on a search string . In contrast illustrates an embodiment as described herein where usefulness metadata is provided. The system provides usefulness metadata based on at least one attribute of the computing device . The system indicates that this usefulness metadata is based at least in part on an attribute of the mobile device by referring to the data as Usefulness for Your Device as an example. The present embodiment also provides a general usefulness score which may be device independent metadata. The illustrated embodiment also provides information to the user identifying that for a particular network resource Anteater Pet Owners the system has identified that an alternate version of the network resource exists with the alternate version optimized for the computing device . The Alternate Version Optimized for Your Device represents a hyperlink to a URL associated with the optimized version. The system identifies that the alternate version has a different expected usefulness for the user s device as compared to the version of the network resource that was provided by the search result. For other search result network resources device based usefulness metadata is provided in addition to device independent usefulness metadata .

The system and may be implemented as computing system that is programmed or configured to perform the various functions described herein. The computing system may include multiple distinct computers or computing devices e.g. physical servers workstations storage arrays etc. that communicate and interoperate over a network to perform the described functions. Each such computing device typically includes a processor or multiple processors that executes program instructions or modules stored in a memory or other non transitory computer readable storage medium. The various functions disclosed herein may be embodied in such program instructions although some or all of the disclosed functions may alternatively be implemented in application specific circuitry e.g. ASICs or FPGAs of the computer system. Where the computing system includes multiple computing devices these devices may but need not be co located. The results of the disclosed methods and tasks may be persistently stored by transforming physical storage devices such as solid state memory chips and or magnetic disks into a different state.

Each of the services shown in and may be implemented in an appropriate combination of computer hardware and software or in application specific circuitry. For example each such service may be implemented in service code executed by one or more physical servers or other computing devices. The service code may be stored on non transitory computer storage devices or media. The various data repositories may include persistent data storage devices hard drives solid state memory etc. that store the disclosed data and may include associated code for managing such data.

Although the inventions have been described in terms of certain preferred embodiments other embodiments will be apparent to those of ordinary skilled in the art including embodiments that do not include all of the features and benefits set forth herein. Accordingly the invention is defined only by the appended claims. Any manner of software designs architectures or programming languages can be used in order to implement embodiments of the invention. Components of the invention may be implemented in distributed cloud based and or web based manners.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or states. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or states are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or states are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

