---

title: Classified relation networking optimization platform in open wireless architecture (OWA) mobile cloud terminal device
abstract: A fully user-centric mobile relation networking management of business networking, personal networking and social networking for mobile terminal device with networking services adaptively and intelligently optimized by converged wireless connections based on open wireless architecture (OWA) mobile cloud infrastructure with QoW (Quality of Wireless connection) control through OWA Operating System (OS) to enable highly secured relation networking for mobile business and personal networking users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09094873&OS=09094873&RS=09094873
owner: 
number: 09094873
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120514
---
This invention relates to a fully user centric mobile relation management of business networking personal networking and social networking for mobile terminal device with services adaptively and intelligently optimized by converged wireless connections based on open wireless architecture OWA mobile cloud infrastructure. By introducing QoW Quality of Wireless connection through OWA Operating System OS Mobile Relation Manager can ensure optimally secured business networking and personal networking for mobile users with mobile devices which are truly user centric instead of carrier centric.

On line social networking is booming up across the global from wireline networks to wireless networks with various services from text message to web pages including photo images text file short video to videos non short video .

Conventional social networking is limited to the desktop or laptop through wireline networks. As mobile device gets more and more popular mobile users have become the driving forces for on line social networking business.

However when evolving from wireline networks to wireless mobile networks lots of technical issues emerge to the performance of the social networking platform. These critical technical issues include 

Therefore the mobile social or relation networking platform must provide the following technical solutions to ensure optimal performance for mobile users 

All of the current and conventional social networking platforms including Facebook Google LinkedIn Myspace Youtube Twitter etc are not optimized for mobile devices of mobile users because of the aforementioned reasons and problems. The conventional social networking is developed for the wireline networking users instead of the mobile wireless users. Furthermore the conventional social networking does not optimize the networking services based on the networking bandwidth because the wireline networking has no much limitation in networking bandwidth and the networking environment is very stable in the wireline networking. Therefore the conventional social networking for wireline users such as Facebook can support full services video web message etc all the time in the form of user posted message video photo images file webpages etc and commercial advertisements images photos video files etc .

However in wireless mobile networking the mobile terminal devices of mobile users are in frequent radio fading environment with seamless mobility the wireless transmission bandwidth is therefore not guaranteed and subject to frequent change which leads to the unstable features of the social and relation networking services of the mobile users.

Though the conventional social networking platforms such as Facebook Google LinkedIn Twitter etc can support mobile devices of mobile users both the connection and service efficiencies are very low and the performance is very poor. Furthermore these conventional social networking platforms do not have secured networking measures for the mobile devices and so mobile users social networking information has been widely leaked to and accessed by unauthorized third parties throughout the wireless social networking platforms especially the unsecured link between the mobile device and the social networking server . This is definitely not acceptable for some important and confidential business and personal networking information in the mobile relation networking.

The https secured Hypertext Transfer Protocol protocol only provides security method in the higher application layer without ensuring the secured transmission in the lower layers including service layer network layer MAC medium access control layer and physical layer. For mobile wireless transmissions the most security threats are from the low layers instead of the application layer. Hence conventional social networking platforms Facebook Google LinkedIn Apple App Store etc do not have such security measures in the mobile wireless transmissions especially for the future converged multiple air interfaces environment.

As more and more mobile users utilize social networking services in mobile terminal devices the aforementioned issues have emerged to be the critical problems in the industry business community as well as society. In addition social networking security becomes one of the major concerns of cyberspace security warned by the federal government of United States especially for business networking and personal networking.

In mobile wireless communications the purely application layer encryption such as web browser s encryption or HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol encryption is not enough to protect the security between the communication end points. Security measures must be taken in cooperation with the underlying wireless connection layers. Therefore multi layers security solution comprising access connection layer service layer and application layer is required for the mobile relation networking platform.

Therefore the performance and security of mobile relation networking platform is mostly limited by and dependent upon the underlying wireless connections and transmissions. Hence open wireless architecture OWA mobile cloud infrastructure is the core technology to construct this classified relation networking optimization platform for mobile relation networking users.

Wireless communications comprises a wide range of technologies services and applications that have come into existence to meet the particular needs of different market sectors and user environments. Different systems can be broadly characterized by 

A service usage pattern may be categorized according to an area where users exploit similar services and expect similar quality of service 

In many countries wireline Internet access in Home Office and Public Area becomes very popular and affordable. Meanwhile WLAN wireless local area network access is evolving rapidly in these domains.

Mobile communications have evolved rapidly on the worldwide basis. But when we look back at the wireless mobile communication history two major issues remain unsolved 

The wireless transmission theory of our research tells us that no single wireless transmission technology can provide both broadband high speed radio transmission and seamless fast mobility capability in a mobile fast fading propagation model environment unless we reduce the mobile network capacity tremendously referred to as LU s Laws in the industry.

Our research shows that when the transmission bandwidth is enough the information processing consumes much more resources and energies than the transmission processing.

In order to solve the above two problems in mobile communications let us analyze the current situations first.

In many countries wireline Internet access in home office and public area becomes very popular and affordable. Meanwhile WLAN wireless local area network access is evolving rapidly in these domains.

Second generation 2G wireless mobile systems were mainly designed for applications such as voice. Third generation 3G and especially fourth generation 4G mobile system will increasingly be designed as combination of different access technologies to complement each other in an optimum way for different service requirements and radio environments in order to provide a common and flexible service platform for different services and applications.

Access to a service or an application may be performed using one system or may be performed using multiple systems simultaneously or alternatively. Specifically as will be described within the context of the present invention and has not been addressed in the art such improved technology could include an integrated and converged communication system which will combine the wireless mobile communication wireline communication wireless local area network broadband wireless access system and Internet into one common platform so that the single Mobile Terminal can operate as a home phone office phone mobile phone and open terminal with single user number which is the unique identifier of this integrated mobile communication terminal.

In future operators may deploy a mix of technologies that could at various stages in time and subject to market and regulatory considerations incorporate cellular WLAN wireless local area network WMAN wireless metropolitan area networks or called BWA broadband wireless access WPAN wireless personal access network digital broadcast satellite and other access systems as discussed by the present invention. This will require the seamless interaction of these systems in order for the user to be able to receive a variety of content via a variety of delivery mechanisms depending upon the particular terminal capabilities location and user profile.

Different radio access systems will be connected via the open and flexible core networks. In this way an individual user can be connected via a variety of different access systems to the networks and services he desires. The integration and convergence between these different access systems in terms of horizontal and vertical handover and seamless service provision with service negotiation including mobility security and service quality management will be a key requirement.

Due to the different application areas cell ranges and radio environments the different access systems can be organized in a layered structure similar to hierarchical cell structures in cellular mobile radio systems. The different layers correspond to the 

Such an integrated mobile terminal system as provided by the present invention could intelligently converge mobile communications Internet wireline communications wireless LAN wireless MAN wireless PAN etc into an open system platform. Each of these represents a variety of applications services and delivery mechanisms. These differing information flows are desired by the users to be available regardless of the means and manner of delivery. The most important is this mobile terminal becomes the All in One common personal communicator at both home and office or on the move with unified single telephone number.

It is well predicted that 2G second generation 3G third generation in its present state 4G fourth generation 5G fifth generation future mobile access and nomadic local area wireless access elements are considered to be a system as a whole in the future. This converged and integrated communication platform as disclosed by the present invention rather than separate and single mode of standard will definitely drive the future telecommunication industry but with new business model for service providers and operators.

Continuous evolution is foreseen in future mobile terminals with use of new components architectures hardware software platforms and improved user interfaces together providing increased performance. The key technologies that will enable the future advanced mobile terminals as described in the present invention include 

A unified global standard of mobile communications becomes extremely difficult and almost impossible. An Open Wireless Architecture OWA based converged wireless platform will thus become reasonable and feasible in both business and technology and therefore ITU international telecommunication union IMT Advanced standardization has been targeting this direction in long run.

Open Wireless Architecture OWA technology is one optimal solution for the Fourth Generation wireless and mobile communications 4G and beyond on the worldwide basis. OWA refers to the open broadband wireless platform that can support diverse wireless and mobile standards and can converge multiple wireless networks. To achieve this flexibility OWA focuses on all aspects of a communication system including RF radio frequency baseband processing networking and application segments. The flexibility and adaptability required for the converged open wireless platform can be achieved by defining the open interface parameters for the OWA systems and networks.

OWA helps in realizing global roaming facilities and seamless networking capabilities amongst different radio transmission technologies. It allows the network operators and subscribers to use third party solutions or user defined solutions on their systems and to customize their systems according to their business models. Using OWA we can build systems which support multiple standards multiple bands multiple modes and offer diverse services to the customers.

OWA is different from SDR software defined radio as OWA basically maps various wireless standards into open interface parameters and maintain the system platform including RF baseband networks and applications an open architecture. Hence in OWA systems different modules both hardware and software can be from different vendors. It is similar to the open computer architecture in personal computer system and open network architecture in packet router system.

However SDR is primarily a radio in which the preset operating parameters including inter alia frequency range modulation type and or output power limitations can be reset or altered by software in order to support different radio frequency bands and or standards. Though SDR has been improved a lot to support re configurability and flexibility it is a closed architecture in coupling different radios into one broadband transceiver. In other words SDR consumes much more power and spectrum in exchange of the system flexibility. From the business point of view SDR is not a cost effective solution in wireless communications.

Furthermore SDR uses broadband transceiver to support multiple wireless standards which is very expensive in the commercial environment. However OWA converges multiple air interfaces in an open system platform to maximize the transmission bandwidth and system performance but each wireless transmission still uses the narrowband transceiver therefore maintaining the system in a cost effective way which is very important for the commercial business.

By using OWA technology we can converge multiple wireless standards in one open system to support both broadband high speed radio transmission and seamless fast mobility capability in a mobile fast fading propagation model environment while maintaining the very high mobile network capacity for the commercial mobile business.

In addition OWA allows allocating multiple air interfaces into an external card so that the users can simply change wireless standards by updating such air interface card without having to change the mobile terminal device or terminal system.

Our mobile research results tell us when the transmission bandwidth is enough the information processing consumes much more resources and energies than the transmission processing in the mobile terminal system. If we can reduce the processing burdens in the mobile terminal including baseband signal processing application processing and networking processing the overall system resources and power can be tremendously minimized and the system can be simplified.

The aforementioned OWA technology platform has secured enough transmission bandwidth by converging multiple wireless standards in one common platform so that the mobile terminal can be optimized for best of effort high speed transmission.

By employing a computer server or network server with a home IP address as the Virtual Mobile Server we can configure this server as the mobile cloud serve to handle the processing tasks for the mobile terminal system which becomes the mobile cloud client accordingly.

When the IP Internet Protocol connection is available for the mobile terminal based on OWA network access solution the aforementioned mobile terminal moves its resource consuming processing tasks to the remote virtual mobile server through IP connection so that most of the processing tasks in the mobile terminal are done in the virtual mobile server instead.

Based on the above mobile cloud architecture the mobile terminal system becomes very simple with basic functions of Transceiver User Interface and Information Display only.

The OWA mobile cloud infrastructure of the present invention is a revolutionary approach in developing the next generation mobile wireless communications based on the OWA technology platform which basically discloses the following several major inventions for the future mobile terminal system 

With the aforementioned OWA mobile cloud platform the optimized maximize wireless connections are guaranteed for the mobile relation networking services comprising the secured business networking the secured personal networking and the unsecured general social networking.

Simplicity is the key driver for future mobile relation networking services which requires the mobile terminal device to be more efficient in both system simplicity and service simplicity.

The present invention is directed to a fully user centric mobile relation management of business networking personal networking and social networking for mobile terminal device with services adaptively and intelligently optimized by converged wireless connections based on open wireless architecture OWA mobile cloud infrastructure. By introducing QoW Quality of Wireless connection through OWA Operating System OS Mobile Relation Manager can ensure optimally secured business networking and personal networking for mobile users with mobile devices which are truly user centric instead of carrier centric.

In the present invention the aforementioned business networking refers to secured business relation networking the aforementioned personal networking refers to secured personal relation networking and the aforementioned social networking refers to unsecured general social networking.

In the present invention the networking refers to business relation networking personal relation networking or general social networking.

The present invention is also directed to a simplified mobile terminal system based on OWA open wireless architecture mobile cloud architecture to support the convergence and integration of various wireless standards including existing and future mobile cellular standards wireless local area network WLAN standards wireless personal area network WPAN standards broadband wireless access BWA standards and wireline standards. The mobile cloud architecture comprises the virtual mobile server as the mobile cloud server and the mobile terminal as the mobile cloud client.

The OWA mobile cloud infrastructure as set forth above tremendously reduces the processing tasks in the mobile terminal system by moving much processing tasks remotely to the virtual mobile server through IP connection based on OWA network access control.

An architecture of mobile cloud wireless mobile terminal of the present invention has the key functional units as follows 

Open Wireless Architecture OWA Interface this software unit is utilized for the communication of various processing data and controls including base band signal processing application processing and networking processing but not limited to between the mobile terminal and the virtual mobile server as set forth above. Open architecture is very important for next generation communication systems because it allows different modules and subsystems to be provided by various different vendors through the open interface standards. OWA is different from SDR software defined radio as OWA basically maps various wireless standards into open interface parameters and maintain the system platform including RF baseband networks and applications an open architecture. Hence in OWA systems different modules both hardware and software can be from different vendors. It is similar to the open computer architecture in personal computer system and open network architecture in packet router system.

However SDR is primarily a radio in which the preset operating parameters including inter alia frequency range modulation type and or output power limitations can be reset or altered by software in order to support different radio frequency bands and or standards. Though SDR has been improved a lot to support re configurability and flexibility it is a closed architecture in coupling different radios or modules into one broadband transceiver. In other words SDR consumes much more power and spectrum in exchange of the system flexibility. From the business point of view SDR is not a cost effective solution in commercial wireless communications.

The OWA Interface of the present invention optimizes the transmission efficiency between the mobile terminal and the virtual mobile server as set forth above.

The aforementioned OWA Interface is an open module to maximize the transmission efficiency between the aforementioned mobile terminal and the aforementioned virtual mobile server. The aforementioned OWA Interface can be minimized or reduced if any processing task signal processing application processing or networking processing including business personal and social networking is not requested or not in use in order to further increase the transmission efficiency and reduce the transmission overhead.

OWA Software Defined Module SDM this functional module supports multiple wireless standards air interfaces for the mobile terminal of the present invention. The module can be stored in the aforementioned mobile terminal or in the external card or downloaded from the Internet. The OWA of this invention supports open air interfaces so that users can change different wireless standards including existing standards or future standards by updating or replacing this SDM module as set forth above wherein this SDM module may further contain independent processors or DSP Digital Signal Processing components in addition to memory units to facilitate signal processing and or protocol processing of related standards etc.

OWA Core this functional module provides basic multi dimensional OWA open baseband processing of multiple wireless standards to ensure the fully operational and efficient capability of OWA digital transceiver working in an open wireless environment. It also schedules the signal processing tasks between the local processing unit and the remote processing unit in the virtual mobile server as set forth above. Hence the aforementioned OWA Core comprises OWA Mobile Cloud sub system and OWA Virtualization sub system to construct the OWA OS operating system to ensure optimal wireless connection based on Quality of Wireless QoW .

OWA Application Processing Optimizer this module schedules the basic applications such as voice short message text but not limited thereto locally in the mobile terminal or the rich applications such as video big file large data web multimedia but not limited thereto remotely through the aforementioned virtual mobile server.

Mobile Relation Manager to schedule and manage business networking personal networking and social networking based on video web and text transmission with the underlying OWA access layer and both secured and unsecured networking API application programming interface with the application layer.

In the present invention video web and text transmissions refer to the wireless service transmissions by wireless over the air links. The aforementioned Video refers to very rich service and application consuming very large wireless bandwidth the aforementioned web refers to medium or basic service and application consuming moderate wireless bandwidth and the aforementioned text is the very basic service and application for wireless service.

The aforementioned networking services refer to various services from text messages texts only to web pages including photos images texts short files short videos to videos non short videos .

Radio Frequency RF Intermediate Frequency IF Subsystem is a portable radio unit with open interface to the main functional units of the mobile terminal of the present invention. This separate open radio subsystem is necessary to support various wireless standards running in different frequency bands wherein the user may change this radio part in case of needs. Additionally this open radio subsystem supports new wireless transceiver technologies for example smart antennas MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output High efficiency power amplifiers Improved RF modules allowing multiple operating frequencies and improved receiver sensitivity etc but not intended to be limited to such technologies.

Network Interface Unit NIU is used to provide wireline network connection and wired communication interface for the mobile terminal of the present invention.

User Interface INF unit is used to provide user machine interfaces including keyboard input touch screen input information recognition input wireless input optical input and user information output etc but not limited thereto.

Display Unit is to generate the results of signal processing application processing and networking processing etc.

Sensor Unit is used to provide interfaces to different sensors of security health safety location automation and intelligence etc but not limited thereto.

Digital transceiver unit includes digital down converter digital up converter analog to digital converter and digital to analog converter.

It is well known to the ordinary skills in the art by the time of this invention that the wireline communication is normally based on IP internet protocol connection no matter that the physical wireline transmission is based on ATM asynchronous transfer mode Frame Relay Fiber Optical or other mediums. In such case the wireline connection is based on IP over such broadband high speed wireline mediums . Because the wireline link is of very high speed broadband transmission up to hundreds of Gb s to Tb s we assume the wireline transmission bandwidth is up to unlimited. Hence we can simply call the wireline connection as IP connection.

However for wireless transmission limited by the available radio spectrum the wireless transmission bandwidth is far from unlimited and therefore it requires to specify the underlying physical transmission medium in order to support the IP connection. In general wireless radio transmission is based on circuit switched instead of packet switched transmission mode especially for the cellular mobile communications with fast fading propagation model. Therefore for general radio transmission technologies RTTs and by default the wireless link is non IP connection. For example the cellular CDMA and TDMA mobile communications with fast fading seamless mobile radio propagation model the wireless transmission link is a non IP connection. However for some non seamless mobile and short range wireless access networks because the radio propagation model is slow fading and the radio transmission environment is very stable the packet division or packet switched connection becomes possible over the slow fading and stable circuit switched transmission medium of the underlying physical layer. Such slow fading and stable RTTs include the non mobile WLAN WPAN BWA and the slow mobile BWA and Cellular mobile networks. In order to support the mobile Internet services by default the WLAN WPAN and BWA can support IP connection. For cellular mobile networks IP connection is possible if the radio propagation model is slow fading mobile speed is low and or the transmission environment is stable otherwise the cellular radio link remains the circuit switched non IP connection. So for wireless communications by default we have IP over WLAN IP over WPAN IP over BWA and IP over Cellular Mobile as well as non IP Cellular Mobile but not limited thereto.

The aforementioned mobile terminal is a converged open architecture terminal supporting wireline network WLAN WPAN BWA and cellular mobile network as set for the above but not limited thereto.

First the OWA mobile cloud infrastructure of the present invention comprises the capability that the mobile terminal can access plurality of and many of wireless air interfaces or called radio transmission technologies RTTs based on the OWA converged wireless network access architecture. Such RTTs include Wireless LAN WLAN technology Wireless PAN WPAN technology Wireless MAN technology or called BWA technology and Cellular Mobile network technology but not limited thereto.

Based on WEI LU s discovery known as LU s LAW that No single Radio Transmission Technology RTT can provide both Broadband High speed Transmission and Seamless Mobility in a commercial environment the future mobile wireless communications will be converging multiple RTTs in an open wireless architecture OWA platform. The future mobile terminal is therefore to integrate and converge multiple RTTs in the order of WLAN WPAN BWA and cellular mobile for the cost effective and spectrum efficient purpose.

On the horizontal dimension of same RTT multiple wireless networks of same RTT may be available for the mobile terminal and so selection criteria are required to access such multiple wireless networks. For WLAN WPAN and BWA Best of Efforts BoE based on signal strength network performance and transmission bandwidth are normally considered to select the right network and optimize the network access but not limited thereto because such wireless access is mostly complimentary or with low fee.

Traditionally the criterion to select cellular mobile networks carriers was based on rates but it will have tremendous change in the future. The future mobile wireless communications will be converging multiple wireless technologies and converging multiple service delivery platforms in supporting truly service oriented mobile communications rather than the traditional transmission specific mobile networks. Therefore the mobile users will care much more about the Best of Efforts BoE Simplicity of Use Network Convergence Inter Networking QoS quality of service and Customer Service etc instead of just rates. As many experts had expected that in the future the wireless access cost will be free or of low cost for most of mobile wireless networks and the new business model will be shifting from the traditional carrier centric to the user centric service delivery architecture. In such case the traditional carrier rate will not make any sense for the future mobile users.

Another trend for future mobile users is to make the mobile terminal as simple as possible mostly on low power consumption simple system and transmission architecture as well as convenient personal communication experience etc. In order to construct such a simple system and transmission terminal a new Mobile Cloud architecture has been disclosed to move the processing tasks applications signals and networks from the mobile terminal to the mobile cloud server called Virtual Mobile Server whenever the IP connection is established and synchronized between the mobile terminal and the virtual mobile server. Such virtual mobile server can support plurality of and many of mobile terminals in a centralized server center data center or any network center with IP connection but not limited thereto.

Such user centric mobile cloud architecture instead of the traditional carrier centric introduces the aforementioned Virtual Mobile Server and the Virtual Register and Call Switch VR CS wherein both of them synchronize each other through IP connection or any PDM Packet Division Multiplexed connection. The aforementioned VR CS manages selects and switches the optimal cellular mobile networks for the mobile terminal of the mobile user based on the selection criteria as set forth above. By introducing the aforementioned VR CS we do not need to change anything in the existing mobile or wireless network infrastructures including any cellular mobile networks and other wireless networks.

The VR CS and Virtual Mobile Server as set forth above synchronize each other through wireline IP or PDM connection or these two systems can integrate into the same system or same center subject to different network infrastructure or different service environment. Further both of them can support many mobile terminals and many mobile users wherein many mobile users and many mobile terminals can share the same VR CS and Virtual Mobile Server as set forth above.

The aforementioned mobile terminal synchronizes with the aforementioned Virtual Mobile Server further synchronizing with the aforementioned VR CS whenever an IP connection is available for the aforementioned mobile terminal. Such IP connection includes IP over wireline network IP over WLAN IP over WPAN IP over BWA and IP over Cellular mobile network but not limited thereto.

The aforementioned VR CS also manages the user centric mobile user registrations comprising the mobile user identifier ID unifying and integrating mobile user personal communication identifier ID mobile user personal identifier ID mobile telephone number mobile user domain address mobile security identifier or called Mobile DNA or any identifier ID which the mobile user prefers but not limited thereto. Based on the aforementioned and further below mentioned mobile cloud infrastructure the future wireless and wireline networks will be totally converged and integrated into an open architecture service delivery platform wherein ONE device ONE number supporting multiple networks will become reality. Such user centric communication registration rather than the traditional carrier centric closed telephone number registration will enable truly user preferable and truly service oriented PERSONAL Communication architecture for the open convergence of multiple networks both wireline and wireless networks. The aforementioned various mobile user registration identifiers are generally referred to the user centric Mobile User ID by default in the present invention but not limited thereto.

The aforementioned user centric Mobile User ID managed in the aforementioned VR CS is a very user friendly communication ID independent to the specific wireless or wireline networks wherein the specific transmission address in the specific networks may be mapped encoded or calculated from the aforementioned Mobile User ID but fully separated and independent from the mobile users. Therefore the mobile users do not have to change the aforementioned Mobile User ID across various different networks including both wireline and wireless networks in the future service oriented network convergence infrastructure.

The aforementioned VR CS can be implemented by general network equipment such as gateway switch router server but no limited thereto as long as IP or PDM connection is established. Such IP or PDM can be over any wireline mediums including ATM asynchronous transfer mode Frame Relay and Fiber Optical but not limited thereto.

The aforementioned VR CS manages the switching of various calls including voice data video and messages but not limited thereto. For the aforementioned network selection to the multiple cellular mobile networks carriers the aforementioned VR CS negotiates with such multiple cellular mobile networks based on the criteria as set forth above.

The aforementioned mobile terminal by Open Wireless Architecture OWA may connect to the networks wireline networks or wireless networks either through IP PDM connection IP over wireline network IP over WLAN IP over WPAN IP over BWA or IP over Cellular mobile network or through Non IP cellular mobile network.

Second the OWA mobile cloud infrastructure of the present invention incorporates an OWA mobile terminal integrating the WLAN technology WPAN technology Wireless MAN technology or called BWA technology and Wireline Internet Access technology with the common air interfaces mobile cellular communication standards for example cdma2000. WCDMA GSM GPRS TD SCDMA OFDM WiMax etc but not limited thereto through the Open Wireless Architecture OWA platform of the present invention. OWA defines the open interface for each subsystem and function unit so that the system is open for upgrade and reconfiguration. The method of present invention supports any short range wireless access technologies including Wireless LAN Wireless MAN and Wireless PAN but not limited thereto. Also as utilized hereinafter the term common air interface mobile standards refers to any type of mobile cellular technology operable in the fashion of TDMA time division multiplex access or CDMA code division multiplex access or OFDM orthogonal frequency division multiplex but not limited thereto.

It is well known to the ordinary skills in the art by the time of this invention that the wireline communication is normally based on IP internet protocol connection no matter that the physical wireline transmission is based on ATM asynchronous transfer mode Frame Relay Fiber Optical or other mediums. In such case the wireline connection is based on IP over such broadband high speed wireline mediums . Because the wireline link is of very high speed broadband transmission up to hundreds of Gb s to Tb s we assume the wireline transmission bandwidth is up to unlimited. Hence we can simply call the wireline connection as IP connection.

However for wireless transmission limited by the available radio spectrum the wireless transmission bandwidth is far from unlimited and therefore it requires to specify the underlying physical transmission medium in order to support the IP connection. In general wireless radio transmission is based on circuit switched instead of packet switched transmission mode especially for the cellular mobile communications with fast fading propagation model. Therefore for general radio transmission technologies RTTs and by default the wireless link is non IP connection. For example the cellular CDMA and TDMA mobile communications with fast fading seamless mobile radio propagation model the wireless transmission link is a non IP connection. However for some non seamless mobile and short range wireless access networks because the radio propagation model is slow fading and the radio transmission environment is very stable the packet division or packet switched connection becomes possible over the slow fading and stable circuit switched transmission medium of the underlying physical layer. Such slow fading and stable RTTs include the non mobile WLAN WPAN BWA and the slow mobile BWA and Cellular mobile networks. In order to support the mobile Internet services by default the WLAN WPAN and BWA can support IP connection. For cellular mobile networks IP connection is possible if the radio propagation model is slow fading mobile speed is low and or the transmission environment is stable otherwise the cellular radio link remains the circuit switched non IP connection. So for wireless communications by default we have IP over WLAN IP over WPAN IP over BWA and IP over Cellular Mobile as well as non IP over Cellular Mobile but not limited thereto.

Third the OWA mobile terminal of the present invention supports multiple standards of both wireless and wireline communications wherein Software Defined Module SDM is used to install or update the different communication standards module. This SDM can be stored in an External Card for example flash memory card SIM smart integrated memory card or downloadable from the Internet. The External Card of the SDM may also contain independent processor DSP Digital Signal Processor or other components in addition to memory unit to facilitate additional system processing.

Fourth the OWA mobile terminal of the present invention incorporates automatic network access capabilities wherein the mobile terminal system searches the available network access in the order of wired network Wireless LAN Wireless PAN BWA broadband wireless access mobile cellular network for example but not limited thereto. The search order can be updated or managed by the user. When the wired network is detected this mobile terminal becomes the wireline terminal and the communication is established by IP connection including IP data IP video and VoIP for voice etc. If wired network is not available and Wireless LAN is detected this mobile terminal becomes the Wireless LAN terminal and the communication is established by IP connection too. Wireless LAN access is regarded as the wireless extension of the wireline network access in the local short range domain. If both wired network and Wireless LAN are not available the mobile terminal system of the present invention will search other short range wireless access networks including Wireless PAN etc or search broadband Wireless Metropolitan Area Networks Wireless MAN or called Broadband Wireless Access BWA for wireless IP connection. In the event that all these networks are not detected the mobile terminal will switch back to the cellular mobile mode wherein cellular mobile air interface standards for example GSM GPRS cdma2000 WCDMA TD SCDMA etc but not limited to will be employed based on the mobile preference list set by the user.

The cellular mobile networks include IP connection for slow mobile slow fading and or stable radio transmission environment and non IP traditional circuit switched connection if the mobile speed is too fast or the propagation model is of fast fading.

The mobile cellular air interface modules supported in the mobile terminal of the present invention can be stored in the terminal itself or in the External Card or its software and parameters downloaded from the Internet in the form of the aforementioned SDM. The mobile terminal associated with the OWA mobile cloud of the present invention is therefore capable of being operative in an open wireless and wireline communication environment supporting various standards and interfaces.

Fifth the OWA mobile terminal of present invention incorporates a new incoming Call Processing Management capability in the Virtual Register and Call Switch VR CS wherein the incoming mobile calls including Voice data Video and Message calls associated with the called mobile phone number or called mobile user identifier mobile user ID are queued for further connecting to the destination mobile terminal based on the Connection Table containing the current network access status of the destination mobile terminal as set forth above. If this destination mobile terminal connects to the wired Internet network first priority for example or Wireless LAN or Wireless PAN or Wireless MAN or called BWA the aforementioned incoming call is forwarded to the destination mobile terminal directly through IP connection by IP calling from the VR CS to the destination mobile terminal as set forth above wherein the Visitor IP address reported by the destination mobile terminal is dialed. If the destination mobile terminal as set forth above does not connect to either the wired network or the wireless LAN or the wireless PAN or the wireless MAN but connects to the cellular mobile network for example TDMA or CDMA or mobile OFDM the aforementioned incoming call is forwarded to the associated Base Station wherein the communication with the destination mobile terminal is over the wireless cellular air link through allocated mobile cellular transmission channel of available mobile cellular standards. Based on the radio propagation model fast fading or slow fading terminal mobile speed fast seamless mobile or slow mobile and radio transmission environment stable or unstable the aforementioned cellular mobile communication link can be either IP connection or non IP connection.

Based on different underlying physical transmission mediums the IP connection of the aforementioned mobile terminal can be IP over wireline IP over WLAN IP over WPAN IP over BWA or IP over Cellular Mobile but not limited thereto.

In case the destination mobile terminal as set forth above is not able to access any above available networks the VR CS then forward the aforementioned incoming call to a main computer Server in main server center or data center which is configured as a Virtual Mobile Server called Mobile Cloud Server through IP connection as will be described within the context of the present invention.

To simplify the system implementation and maximize the system performance of the aforementioned mobile terminal in case the incoming call is a rich application call consuming much transmission bandwidth and processing resources such as video call or large file call etc but the stable and high speed IP connection is not available the aforementioned mobile terminal may request the aforementioned VR CS to reroute the aforementioned incoming call to the aforementioned virtual mobile server without connecting this incoming call to the aforementioned mobile terminal to save both wireless system and wireless transmission resources.

The aforementioned IP connection applied to all of the Packet Division Multiplex PDM networks in supporting packet switched transmissions. By default in the present invention PDM refers to IP or other packet switched connections.

When multiple cellular networks are available for the aforementioned mobile terminal to select the optimal cellular mobile link s either in IP connection or in non IP connection the selection method of cellular networks is based on the overall rating of Best of Effort Simplicity and Convergence Inter networking QoS quality of service Network Performance Cost Effectiveness and Customer Services for each mobile user but not limited thereto. Such network selection table is maintained in the Network Access Optimizer of the aforementioned VR CS synchronized with the virtual mobile server as set forth above.

Whenever an IP connection is available the aforementioned mobile terminal synchronizes with the virtual mobile server in a real time and optimized manner.

The synchronized IP or PDM link between the mobile terminal and the virtual mobile server as set forth above include IP over WLAN IP over WPAN IP over BWA and IP over Cellular Mobile network but not limited thereto.

The aforementioned WLAN may include WiFi network wireless local loop IEEE802.11 network and HyperLAN but not limited thereto. The aforementioned WPAN may include Bluetooth network ZigBee network UWB ultra wideband wireless network and IEEE802.15 network but not limited thereto. The aforementioned BWA may include WiMax network spectrum spreading wireless network wireless ATM asynchronous transfer mode network and IEEE802.16 network but not limited thereto. The aforementioned cellular mobile network may include CDMA TDMA and OFDM as set forth above but not limited thereto.

Sixth the OWA mobile cloud of the present invention comprises the utilization of the computer server s with Internet access as the Virtual Mobile Server also called Mobile Cloud Server in Data Center or in any server locations as set forth above supporting the aforementioned mobile terminal of the present invention with enhanced functions and services for example network optimization mobile relations server mobile applications mobile Internet optimization server mobile Internet applications server Voice and Video server Short Message Service SMS server Multimedia Message Service MMS server aforementioned SDM center and Date Center etc. This Virtual Mobile Server as set forth above also takes the function of Special Service Management for the aforementioned mobile terminal on mobile location emergency call information collection security and safety control sensor network control and OWA mobile cloud O M Operation and Maintenance etc. Additionally one Virtual Mobile Server as set forth above can support one or multiple mobile terminals of the present invention wherein many such mobile terminals can share the same aforementioned Virtual Mobile Server.

The aforementioned Virtual Mobile Server s supporting group or many of aforementioned mobile terminals can locate in the computer servers center or in the network data center.

For the OWA mobile cloud infrastructure of the present invention the aforementioned virtual mobile server comprises an important Terminal Processing Unit which operates the OWA Interface processing base band signal processing application processing and networking processing for the mobile terminal as set forth above.

The aforementioned Terminal Processing Unit further comprises the following functions with the aforementioned mobile terminal bandwidth optimization and synchronization signals synchronization applications synchronization as well as network optimization and synchronization.

The aforementioned virtual mobile server also includes a Mobile Internet Applications server for the aforementioned mobile terminal when the IP connection between them is available.

The aforementioned virtual mobile server is a very important system for the OWA mobile cloud infrastructure which is utilized for mobile cloud server processing for the mobile terminal s hosting various mobile applications and maintaining the aforementioned SDM air interfaces modules for one or multiple mobile terminals as set forth above.

The aforementioned virtual mobile server can be located in the network Data center supporting groups of the aforementioned mobile terminals.

Whenever an IP connection is available the aforementioned mobile terminal synchronizes with the virtual mobile server in a real time and optimized manner.

The synchronized IP or PDM link between the mobile terminal and the virtual mobile server as set forth above include IP over WLAN IP over WPAN IP over BWA and IP over Cellular Mobile network but not limited thereto.

Seventh the OWA mobile cloud infrastructure of the present invention defines a new OWA Interface to maximize the information transmission efficiency between the aforementioned mobile terminal and the aforementioned virtual mobile server. This OWA interface optimizes the wireless transmission for IP internet protocol over multiple radio transmission technologies RTTs including IP over WLAN IP over WPAN IP over BWA or IP over Cellular Mobile but not limited thereto.

Eighth the OWA mobile terminal of the present invention supports open interface between the main functional units of the mobile terminal and the RF IF radio frequency intermediate frequency subsystem so that the mobile terminal RF IF part is portable and reconfigurable. In other words mobile users can change or replace the RF IF ports subject to multiple different RTTs but without having to change the aforementioned mobile terminal device. This method of the present invention is necessary when the different wireless standards run in different frequency bands which are not within same RF IF transceiver limit. This open and portable RF IF architecture of the present invention is also very important to support new wireless transceiver technologies including smart antennas MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output High efficiency power amplifiers Improved RF modules allowing multiple operating frequencies and improved receiver sensitivity etc.

Ninth the system and method of present invention introduces a new innovative solution to converge and integrate the various communication devices into one open platform wherein the conventional home phone office phone and cellular phone etc are combined together into an integrated and converged terminal as set forth above with one single communication number. Furthermore the aforementioned common terminal of the present invention utilizes the existing or any future communication standards including both wireless and wireline standards by changing or replacing the aforementioned SDM card rather than relying on new defined transmission technologies. Specifically as described within the context of the present invention the aforementioned common terminal is just an improvement of the existing communication device wherein this common terminal as set forth above is operable in each individual communication standard and backwards compatible to the same individual transmission technology.

Lastly the system and method of present invention comprises the best and optimal utilization of the existing communication infrastructure wherein almost all existing telecommunication equipments including Mobile Switching Center Base Station Gateway and Router and backbone networks but not limited thereto remain unchanged and fully operable.

The advantage of the OWA Mobile Cloud system and method of the present invention includes remarkable improvement of spectrum efficiency in mobile cellular bands improvement in network resource and radio transmission resource optimization in network interoperability enhancement of the emerging broadband availability convergence of entertainment and Voice Data services interaction and integration of various communication devices and defining the future intelligence of truly smart and service oriented communication environment. More specifically the system of the present invention provides the capability of the true Personal Communications wherein one single mobile terminal with one single mobile number or mobile identifier manages all personal communications needs everywhere and anytime.

The invention of the classified relation networking optimization platform in OWA mobile cloud terminal includes the following main parts 

After the underlying wireless connection is optimized based on QoW Quality of Wireless connection and the access to the mobile cloud server is secured the mobile terminal can classify the networking needs into business networking personal networking and social networking supporting different services including video web and text message. A classified relation networking optimization platform by OWA mobile cloud comprises OWA OS operating system module supporting optimized wireless connection based on QoW Quality of Wireless connection and Networking Service OS module supporting best connected and secured business networking and personal networking as well as best connected and un secured social networking.

The OWA OS module includes OWA Mobile Cloud Client synchronizing with virtual mobile server as mobile cloud server and OWA Virtualization Sub Layer supporting various multiple radio transmission technologies RTTs including WLAN WPAN BWA and cellular mobile etc. The Mobile Cloud Client optimizes the mobile terminal device in both wireless transmission and system processing and provides the best wireless connections cost bandwidth and spectrum efficiency based on QoW Quality of Wireless connections . The Mobile Cloud client also allocates the processing tasks in the mobile terminal to the virtual mobile server as much as possible by the OWA optimized wireless connections for the mobile terminal.

The Networking Service OS module comprises Mobile Relation Manager scheduling best and optimal services rich video rich web and simple text message for business networking personal networking or social networking adaptively controlled by the OWA OS module and Mobile DNA DeoxyriboNucleic Acid simply referring to unique identifier in the present invention unit encoding decoding security DNA for business networking and personal networking in an enhanced security measure.

When a high speed IP connection with required good QoW is available between mobile terminal and virtual mobile server all of the services including video web and message will be activated for the business networking personal networking and social networking. When only non IP cellular mobile connection is available or slow IP connection is available with poor QoW the Mobile Relation Manager will limit business networking personal networking and social networking to the basic services including basic web and text message only.

The Networking Service OS module provides a truly user centric relation classification layer or classification service layer fully independent to the underlying specific wireless transmissions. In addition the OWA OS module provides an open access layer totally separating specific wireless RTTs with higher layers including classification service layer and Networking Service OS module etc.

Above the Classification service layer of the Networking Service OS module is an open Application layer with common networking API application programming interface for secured personal and business networking as well as unsecured social networking. The open Application layer can be synchronized to an office or home desktop computer or to a virtual mobile server as set forth above.

Step 1 Check if IP over Wireless is available or not. If it is available it goes to the next step Step 2 otherwise it enables and limits the mobile terminal to basic services of basic web and message text only for mobile terminal and then moves to Step 3. The IP over Wireless includes IP over WLAN IP over WPAN IP over BWA and IP over Cellular but not limited thereto. When the IP Wireless IP over Wireless is available the mobile terminal is synchronized with the mobile cloud server virtual mobile server .

Step 2 Check if QoW Quality of Wireless connection is acceptable or not. If it is acceptable it enables full services of rich video rich web and message text for the mobile terminal and then moves to Step 3. otherwise it enables moderate services of web and message text only for the mobile terminal and then moves to Step 3. The QoW check is basically on the combined consideration of cost bandwidth and spectrum efficiency wherein a good QoW means a good transmission bandwidth with good cost effectiveness and spectrum efficiency for example good QoW with IP over WLAN but not limited thereto. In contrast a poor QoW means a poor transmission bandwidth or poor cost effectiveness though transmission bandwidth could be good or poor spectrum efficiency for example a poor QoW may mean IP over Cellular mobile but costing too much for the mobile services. IP over Cellular includes IP over TDMA IP over CDMA IP over OFDM but not limited thereto.

Step 3 Check if Secured Personal Networking and or Business Networking are requested or not. If it is or they are requested then check if QoS quality of service is acceptable or not otherwise it goes directly to the unsecured Application layer of general social networking. If QoS is acceptable it moves to Mobile DNA processing unit then continues to the secured Application layer of business networking and or personal networking otherwise it automatically shuts down the secured networking service including business networking and personal networking because the service quality is too poor to ensure the security performance then goes directly to the unsecured Application layer of general social networking. The QoS check is based on standard service quality performance including bandwidth latency or delay jitter or variation in delay synchronization packet loss ratio packet error ratio but not limited thereto.

The QoW and QoS controls fully ensure the user centric relation management of secured business networking and personal networking for the mobile users based on OWA mobile cloud infrastructure.

First Personal and Business DNA Encoder to encode user information device information and content information into a DNA code or sequence. The DNA Encoder can be processed through multidimensional matrix operation by user information including user ID identifier user name user SSN social security number user FP fingerprint user PIN personal identification number device information including device ID device GID global identification device SIM Subscriber Identity Module device SN serial number with content information including content title content author content ISSN International Standard Serial Number content ISBN International Standard Book Number but not limited thereto or through matrix operation of user parameters network parameters transmission parameters device parameters with content information but not limited thereto.

Second Module of Fingerprinting DNA into Contents to fingerprint the DNA into user contents video web and message text and generate the integrated information stream or data. The fingerprinting can be content based fingerprinting with encoded DNA watermark fingerprinting with the DNA security coded fingerprinting with the DNA or user defined fingerprinting with the DNA but not limited thereto.

Third Security Encryption module to encrypt the fingerprinted contents to generate secured information output.

The security encryption can use standard or common encryption method or user defined encryption algorithm.

The DNA Encoder DNA Fingerprinting module and Security Encryption module construct the secured information frame to be transmitted securely from mobile device to mobile cloud server. The mobile cloud server connects directly to the wireline networks and can forward distribute reroute dispatch or switch the secured information frame by the Mobile DNA to other mobile device s either inside the same network or outside the same network or to any other networks through wireline backbone network or through global Internet to construct end to end secured networking including secured business networking and secured personal networking as set forth above among different mobile terminals through the aforementioned secured information frame by the aforementioned Mobile DNA synchronized with the aforementioned virtual mobile server.

In this way by the present invention the entire networking infrastructure of business networking and personal networking is fully secured and protected.

First Security Decryption module to decrypt the received secured information input to restore the fingerprinted contents.

The security decryption can use standard or common decryption method or user defined decryption algorithm.

Second Module of Tracking and Detecting DNA from received Contents module of Personal and Business DNA Decoder and DNA Match and Authorization module to detect and decode the correct DNA from the received fingerprinted contents. The module of Tracking and Detecting DNA is utilized to filter out the correct DNA from the received contents. The DNA Match and Authorization module is utilized to check whether it is an authorized DNA or a fake DNA based on authorization algorithm by searching DNA database in the mobile terminal device synchronized with the virtual mobile server. The Personal and Business DNA Decoder is utilized to decode DNA into User Information Device Information and Content Information.

Third Content Claim module to claim and generate the original contents from the received fingerprinted contents by detected and authorized DNA. The original contents include original video original web and original message text.

The DNA Decoder and Contents Claim can be inverse or reverse operations of the DNA Encoder and Fingerprinting DNA into Contents. The DNA Tracking and Detecting can be content based DNA detection but not limited thereto.

The DNA algorithm is a mathematical function of user information device information and content information but can be simplified reduced shortened or compressed in different applications for example the content information can be omitted in simple applications but not limited thereto.

The Mobile DNA unit can be simplified reduced compressed or reconfigured subject to the adaptive control of the underlying OWA OS module to optimize the whole system performance in wireless connections based on the QoW and in wireless services based on the QoS.

The DNA Match and Authorization module facilitates effective blocking of unnecessary contents including virus spam spyware advertisement from coming to the mobile terminal by matching the detected DNA code with the DNA database to protect security and optimize performance for business networking and personal networking as set forth above.

As a conclusion the OWA mobile cloud terminal with classified relation networking optimization platform of the present invention is a revolutionary approach in developing the next generation mobile wireless communications based on the OWA technology platform which basically discloses the following several major inventions for the future mobile terminal system 

Further in conclusion an Open Wireless Architecture OWA mobile cloud terminal with classified relation networking optimization platform of the present invention discloses the following systems 

Simplicity is the key driver for future mobile relation networking services which requires the mobile terminal device to be more efficient in both system simplicity and service simplicity. The aforementioned OWA OS simplifies the mobile terminal by moving much processing tasks to the virtual mobile server and optimizing wireless connections through the virtual mobile server and the aforementioned Networking Service OS simplifies the relation networking platform for mobile terminal by adaptively classifying secured business networking secured personal networking and unsecured social networking between the mobile terminal and the virtual mobile server wherein the virtual mobile server maintains the complete and full relation networking services but the mobile terminal is scheduled for the optimal relation networking service automatically controlled by the OWA OS and synchronized with the virtual mobile server.

The present invention of classified relation networking optimization benefits from the revolutionary Open Wireless Architecture OWA Mobile Cloud platform which greatly optimizes the networking performance of business networking personal networking and social networking.

Scaling in wireless communications is in number of connected devices or systems no longer in number of transistors or chips. Trillions of radios will bring virtualization to a new level of open wireless architecture OWA .

The future mobile networks will evolve to an User centric Mobile Cloud infrastructure based on Open Wireless Architecture OWA rather than the traditional Carrier centric mobile cellular infrastructure based on specific radio transmission technology.

Open Wireless Architecture OWA converges WLAN WPAN BWA and Cellular mobile into one open platform to optimize the wireless transmission and wireless access for the future User Centric Mobile Device and to balance effectively the overall performance among wireless Broadband High speed Transmission Seamless Mobility and Network Capacity.

All these and other introductions of the present invention will become much clear when the drawings as well as the detailed descriptions are taken into consideration.

The present invention relates to a fully user centric mobile relation management of business networking personal networking and social networking for mobile terminal device with services adaptively and intelligently optimized by converged wireless connections based on open wireless architecture OWA mobile cloud infrastructure. By introducing QoW Quality of Wireless connection through OWA Operating System OS Mobile Relation Manager can ensure optimally secured business networking and personal networking for mobile users with mobile devices which are truly user centric instead of carrier centric.

The present invention also relates to a mobile cloud architecture based on OWA platform wherein the processing tasks of the mobile terminal including base band signal processing application processing and networking processing can be allocated to the virtual mobile server which is a computer server with home IP address or assigned roaming IP address by the aforementioned home IP address when an IP connection is set up between the mobile terminal and the virtual mobile server. Such IP connection is established when the mobile terminal connects to a wireline network a short range wireless access network for example Wireless LAN and Wireless PAN but not limited thereto or a broadband wireless metropolitan area network Wireless MAN for example Broadband Wireless Access system but not limited thereto . In this way the mobile terminal s system complexity can be tremendously reduced the processing power consumption can be greatly decreased and the system performance is maximized accordingly.

An OWA mobile cloud infrastructure of the present invention comprises the capability that the mobile terminal can access plurality of and many of wireless air interfaces or called radio transmission technologies RTTs based on the OWA converged wireless network access architecture. Such RTTs include Wireless LAN WLAN technology Wireless PAN WPAN technology Wireless MAN technology or called BWA technology and Cellular Mobile network technology but not limited thereto.

Based on WEI LU s discovery that No single Radio Transmission Technology RTT can provide both Broadband High speed Transmission and Seamless Mobility in a commercial environment the future mobile wireless communications will be converging multiple RTTs in an open wireless architecture OWA platform. The future mobile terminal is therefore to integrate and converge multiple RTTs in the order of WLAN WPAN BWA and cellular mobile for the cost effective and spectrum efficient purpose.

On the horizontal dimension of same RTT multiple wireless networks of same RTT may be available for the mobile terminal and so selection criteria are required to access such multiple wireless networks. For WLAN WPAN and BWA Best of Efforts BoE based on signal strength network performance and transmission bandwidth are normally considered to select the right network and optimize the network access but not limited thereto because such wireless access is mostly complimentary or with low fee.

Traditionally the criteria to select cellular mobile networks carriers was based on rates but it will have tremendous change in the future. The future mobile wireless communications will be converging multiple wireless technologies and converging multiple service delivery platforms in supporting truly service oriented mobile communications rather than the traditional transmission specific mobile networks. Therefore the mobile users will care much more about the Best of Efforts BoE Simplicity of Use Network Convergence Inter Networking QoS quality of service and Customer Service etc instead of just rates. As many experts had expected that in the future the wireless access cost will be free or of low cost for most of mobile wireless networks and the new business model will be shifting from the traditional carrier centric to the user centric service delivery architecture. In such case the traditional carrier rate will not make any sense for the future mobile users.

Another trend for future mobile users is to make the mobile terminal as simple as possible mostly on low power consumption simple system and transmission architecture as well as convenient personal communication experience etc. In order to construct such a simple system and transmission terminal a new Mobile Cloud architecture has been disclosed to move the processing tasks applications signals and networks from the mobile terminal to the mobile cloud server called Virtual Mobile Server whenever the IP connection is established and synchronized between the mobile terminal and the virtual mobile server. Such virtual mobile server can support plurality of and many of mobile terminals in a centralized server center data center or any network center with IP connection but not limited thereto.

After the underlying wireless connection is optimized and the access to the mobile cloud server is secured the mobile terminal can classify the networking service needs into business networking personal networking and general social networking supporting different services including video web and text message. shows a classified relation networking optimization platform by OWA mobile cloud which comprises OWA OS operating system module supporting optimized wireless connection based on QoW Quality of Wireless connection and Networking Service OS module supporting best connected and secured business networking and personal networking as well as best connected and un secured social networking.

The aforementioned OWA OS module includes OWA Mobile Cloud Client synchronizing with virtual mobile server as mobile cloud server and OWA Virtualization Sub Layer supporting various multiple radio transmission technologies RTTs including WLAN WPAN BWA and cellular mobile as set forth above. The aforementioned Mobile Cloud Client optimizes the mobile terminal device in both wireless transmission and system processing and provides the best wireless connections cost bandwidth and spectrum efficiency based on QoW Quality of Wireless connections . The aforementioned Mobile Cloud client also allocates the processing tasks in the aforementioned mobile terminal to the aforementioned virtual mobile server as much as possible by the OWA optimized wireless connections for the aforementioned mobile terminal.

The aforementioned Networking Service OS module comprises Mobile Relation Manager scheduling best and optimal services rich video rich web and simple text message for business networking personal networking or social networking adaptively controlled by the aforementioned OWA OS module and Mobile DNA unit encoding decoding security DNA for the aforementioned business networking and personal networking.

When a high speed IP connection with required good QoW is available between mobile terminal and virtual mobile server as set forth above all of the services including the aforementioned video web and message will be activated for the aforementioned business networking personal networking and social networking. When only non IP cellular mobile connection is available or slow IP connection is available with poor QoW the aforementioned Mobile Relation Manager will limit the aforementioned business networking personal networking and social networking to the basic services including basic web and text message only.

The aforementioned Networking Service OS module provides a truly user centric relation classification service layer fully independent to the underlying specific wireless transmissions. In addition the aforementioned OWA OS module provides an open access layer totally separating specific wireless RTTs with higher layers including classification service layer and Networking Service OS module as set forth above.

The aforementioned QoW is automatically updated and or optimized by the optimized wireless connections of mobile terminal in the preset automatic connection optimization order from highest to lowest of WLAN WPAN BWA and cellular mobile as set forth above but the automatic connection optimization order can be reset or changed by mobile user and the updated QoW adaptively synchronizes with the Mobile Relation Manager and the Mobile DNA unit in the Networking Service OS module to optimize networking and service performance of business networking personal networking and social networking as set forth above.

Above the aforementioned Classification service layer of the Networking Service OS module is an open Application layer with common networking API application programming interface for secured personal and business networking as well as un secured social networking. The aforementioned open Application layer can be synchronized to an office home desktop computer or to a virtual mobile server as set forth above.

Step 1 Check if IP over Wireless is available or not. If it is available it goes to the next step Step 2 otherwise it enables and limits to basic services of basic web and message text only for mobile terminal and then moves to Step 3. The aforementioned IP over Wireless includes IP over WLAN IP over WPAN IP over BWA and IP over Cellular as set forth above but not limited thereto. When the aforementioned IP Wireless IP over Wireless is available the mobile terminal is synchronized with the mobile cloud server virtual mobile server as set forth above.

Step 2 Check if QoW Quality of Wireless connection is acceptable or not. If it is acceptable it enables full services of rich video rich web and message text for the mobile terminal and then moves to Step 3. otherwise it enables moderate services of web and message text only for the mobile terminal and then moves to Step 3. The aforementioned QoW check is basically on the combined consideration of cost bandwidth and spectrum efficiency wherein a good QoW means a good transmission bandwidth with good cost effectiveness and spectrum efficiency for example good QoW with the aforementioned IP over WLAN but not limited thereto. In contrast a poor QoW means a poor transmission bandwidth or poor cost effectiveness though transmission bandwidth could be good or poor spectrum efficiency for example a poor QoW may mean IP over Cellular mobile but costing too much for the mobile services. The aforementioned IP over Cellular includes IP over TDMA IP over CDMA IP over OFDM but not limited thereto.

Step Check if Secured Personal Networking and or Business Networking are requested or not. If it is or they are requested then check if QoS quality of service is acceptable or not otherwise it goes directly to the unsecured Application layer of general social networking. If the aforementioned QoS is acceptable it moves to Mobile DNA processing unit then continues to the secured Application layer of business networking and or personal networking otherwise it automatically shuts down the secured networking service including business networking and personal networking because the service quality is too poor to ensure the security performance then goes directly to the unsecured Application layer of general social networking. The aforementioned QoS check is based on standard service quality performance including bandwidth latency or delay jitter or variation in delay synchronization packet loss ratio packet error ratio but not limited thereto.

The aforementioned QoW and QoS controls fully ensure the user centric relation management of secured business networking and personal networking for the mobile users based on OWA mobile cloud infrastructure.

First Personal and Business DNA Encoder to encode user information device information and content information into a DNA code or sequence. The aforementioned DNA Encoder can be through multidimensional matrix operation by user information including user ID identifier user name user SSN social security number user FP fingerprint user PIN personal identification number device information including device ID device GID global identification device SIM Subscriber Identity Module device SN serial number with content information including content title content author content ISSN International Standard Serial Number content ISBN International Standard Book Number but not limited thereto or through matrix operation of user parameters network parameters transmission parameters device parameters with content information but not limited thereto.

Second Module of Fingerprinting DNA into Contents to fingerprint the aforementioned DNA into user contents video web and message text and generate the integrated information stream or data. The aforementioned fingerprinting can be content based fingerprinting with encoded DNA watermark fingerprinting with the aforementioned DNA security coded fingerprinting with the aforementioned DNA or user defined fingerprinting with the aforementioned DNA but not limited thereto.

Third Security Encryption module to encrypt the fingerprinted contents to generate secured information output.

The aforementioned security encryption can use standard or common encryption method or user defined encryption algorithm.

The aforementioned DNA Encoder DNA Fingerprinting module and Security Encryption module construct the secured information frame to be transmitted securely from mobile device to mobile cloud server as set forth above. The aforementioned mobile cloud server connects directly to the wireline networks and can forward distribute reroute dispatch or switch the aforementioned secured information frame by the aforementioned Mobile DNA to other mobile device s either inside the same network or outside the same network or to any other networks through wireline backbone network or through Internet.

First Security Decryption module to decrypt the received secured information input to restore the fingerprinted contents as set forth above.

The aforementioned security decryption can use standard or common decryption method or user defined decryption algorithm.

Second Module of Tracking and Detecting DNA from received Contents module of Personal and Business DNA Decoder and DNA Match and Authorization module to detect and decode the correct DNA from the received fingerprinted contents. The aforementioned module of Tracking and Detecting DNA is utilized to filter out the correct DNA from the received contents. The aforementioned DNA Match and Authorization module is utilized to check whether it is an authorized DNA or a fake DNA based on authorization algorithm by User Information and or Device information as set forth above. The aforementioned Personal and Business DNA Decoder is utilized to decode DNA into User Information Device Information and Content Information as set forth above.

Third Content Claim module to claim and generate the original contents from the received fingerprinted contents by detected and authorized DNA. The aforementioned original contents include original video original web and original message text.

The aforementioned DNA Decoder and Contents Claim can be inverse or reverse operations of the aforementioned DNA Encoder and Fingerprinting DNA into Contents. The aforementioned DNA Tracking and Detecting can be content based DNA detection but not limited thereto.

The aforementioned DNA is a mathematic function of user information device information and content information but can be simplified reduced shortened or compressed in different applications for example the content information can be omitted in simple applications but not limited thereto.

The aforementioned Mobile DNA unit can be simplified reduced compressed or reconfigured subject to the adaptive control of the underlying OWA OS module as set forth above to optimize the whole system performance in wireless connections based on the aforementioned QoW and in wireless services based on the aforementioned QoS.

Such user centric mobile cloud architecture instead of the traditional carrier centric for the OWA mobile terminal as shown in introduces the aforementioned Virtual Mobile Server and a Virtual Register and Call Switch VR CS wherein both of them synchronize each other through IP connection or any PDM Packet Division Multiplexed connection. The aforementioned VR CS manages selects and switches the optimal cellular mobile networks for the mobile terminal of the mobile user based on the selection criteria as set forth above. By introducing the aforementioned VR CS we do not need to change anything in the existing mobile or wireless network infrastructures including any cellular mobile networks and other wireless networks.

The VR CS and Virtual Mobile Server as set forth above synchronize each other through wireline IP or PDM connection or these two systems can integrate into the same system or same center subject to different network infrastructure or different service environment. Further both of them can support many mobile terminals and many mobile users wherein many mobile users and many mobile terminals can share the same VR CS and Virtual Mobile Server as set forth above.

The aforementioned mobile terminal synchronizes with the aforementioned Virtual Mobile Server further synchronizing with the aforementioned VR CS whenever an IP connection is available for the aforementioned mobile terminal. Such IP connection includes IP over wireline network IP over WLAN IP over WPAN IP over BWA and IP over Cellular mobile network but not limited thereto.

The aforementioned VR CS also manages the user centric mobile user registrations comprising the mobile user identifier ID unifying and integrating mobile user personal communication identifier ID mobile user personal identifier ID mobile telephone number mobile user domain address mobile security identifier or called Mobile DNA or any identifier ID which the mobile user prefers but not limited thereto. Based on the aforementioned and further below mentioned mobile cloud infrastructure the future wireless and wireline networks will be totally converged and integrated into an open architecture service delivery platform wherein ONE device ONE number supporting multiple networks will become reality. Such user centric communication registration rather than the traditional carrier centric closed telephone number registration will enable truly user preferable and truly service oriented PERSONAL Communication architecture for the open convergence of multiple networks both wireline and wireless networks. The aforementioned various mobile user registration identifiers are generally referred to the user centric Mobile User ID by default in the present invention but not limited thereto.

The aforementioned user centric Mobile User ID managed in the aforementioned VR CS is a very user friendly communication ID independent to the specific wireless or wireline networks wherein the specific transmission address in the specific networks may be mapped encoded or calculated from the aforementioned Mobile User ID but fully separated and independent from the mobile users. Therefore the mobile users do not have to change the aforementioned Mobile User ID across various different networks including both wireline and wireless networks in the future service oriented network convergence infrastructure.

The aforementioned VR CS manages the switching of various calls including voice data video and messages but not limited thereto. For the aforementioned network selection to the multiple cellular mobile networks carriers the aforementioned VR CS negotiates with such multiple cellular mobile networks based on the criteria as set forth above.

The aforementioned multiple cellular mobile networks can converge or merge into a unified cellular mobile network to optimize the open mobile cloud infrastructure.

The aforementioned mobile terminal by Open Wireless Architecture OWA may connect to the networks wireline networks or wireless networks either through IP PDM connection IP over wireline network IP over WLAN IP over WPAN IP over BWA or IP over Cellular mobile network or through Non IP cellular mobile network.

The Virtual Mobile Server and the VR CS as set forth above connect to the backbone Internet through IP or PDM connection and the aforementioned mobile terminal becomes the mobile cloud client once connected and synchronized with the aforementioned virtual mobile server through IP or PDM connection. All wireless networks disclosed in connect to the backbone Internet through IP or PDM connections.

The aforementioned mobile terminal can be any wireless or mobile terminal equipment of mobile Internet Internet of Things IoT Cyber Physical Systems Ubiquitous networks Sensor networks but not limited thereto.

Firstly the aforementioned VR CS checks whether the mobile terminal has requested VR CS to reroute its incoming call voice data video or message call to the virtual mobile server main server s with Internet connection of home IP address s as set forth above without connecting to the mobile terminal. This request is necessary when the mobile terminal does not have a high speed IP connection but the incoming call contains large big file or long video file etc or when the mobile terminal is busy and does not want to accept new calls consuming too much wireless bandwidth or system resources etc. If no such rerouting request is received in the aforementioned VR CS then it proceeds to the next step.

The Connection Table Conn Table is frequently updated by the mobile terminal synchronized with the aforementioned virtual mobile server as set forth above through specific network connections wherein Visitor IP address is reported in case of wired network connection or short range wireless access connection for example WLAN or WPAN or broadband wireless access network connection based on IP connection as well as in some situations the cellular mobile networks in slow mobile slow fading and or stable radio transmission environment wherein IP over cellular mobile is possible. If there are no such IP connections available with the aforementioned mobile terminal the VR CS as set forth above together with associated mobile switching center or gateway and base station communicates with this mobile terminal over the cellular mobile networks for example CDMA networks TDMA networks or OFDM networks but not limited thereto wherein the specific cellular air link channel address is reported to the aforementioned Connection Table.

When the aforementioned mobile terminal reports the aforementioned Visitor IP address to the aforementioned VR CS and further synchronize with the aforementioned VMS the global equipment identifier ID such as global mobile phone ID or global mobile device ID etc of the aforementioned mobile terminal is thereby reported to the aforementioned VMS to link to the aforementioned Visitor IP address in order to trace the aforementioned mobile terminal in different IP networks of the aforementioned IP connection. This is very useful to trace the terminal equipment when the aforementioned mobile terminal gets lost stolen or unauthorized use but not limited thereto.

When an incoming mobile call including voice data video and message call is received and there is no rerouting request rerouting to virtual mobile server from the mobile terminal the aforementioned VR CS searches the Connection Table associated with the called mobile terminal or the destination mobile terminal in this case of the present invention. If a Visitor IP address is found the VR CS dials or re synchronizes this IP address through IP Call Switch in VR CS or other IP system in different infrastructure to establish the IP connection accordingly. If this Visitor IP address is not available and the regular cellular mobile link address for example CDMA TDMA or OFDM channel address is found and associated with the called destination mobile terminal number the VR CS switches to the associated cellular network and connects the associated mobile switching center or gateway and base station to establish the communication with the destination mobile terminal as set forth above over the cellular mobile air link. This cellular mobile channel can be either static channel or dynamically assigned channel to optimize the wireless spectrum utilization.

Based on the radio propagation model fast fading or slow fading terminal mobile speed fast seamless mobile or slow mobile and radio transmission environment stable or unstable the aforementioned cellular mobile communication link can be either IP connection or non IP connection.

However it is emphasized that the OWA mobile cloud infrastructure of the present invention utilizes the terms mobile switching center mobile gateway base station etc which in the context of the present invention is meant to include the aforementioned existing CDMA system TDMA GSM system OFDM system or any other mobile communication infrastructure utilizing different network topology and or network architecture with different terms which may or may not have all of the functional characteristics of existing CDMA or TDMA or OFDM standards. As such the OWA mobile cloud infrastructure of the present invention is not meant to be limited to current mobile cellular communication infrastructure and the subsequent specific description utilization and explanation of certain characteristics previously recited as being characteristics of a mobile switching center or base station or mobile gateway or mobile router are not intended to be limited to such technology.

If after searching the Connection Table as set forth above both Visitor IP address and cellular mobile link address including CDMA or TDMA or OFDM channel are not found the aforementioned VR CS has to forward the incoming call over IP connection to the aforementioned virtual mobile server wherein a fixed Home IP address is stored in the aforementioned Connection Table.

Therefore the incoming mobile call processing management in VR CS or any Mobile Gateway Mobile Switch in different terms of the present invention requires the minimum modification of the existing mobile communication infrastructure.

The aforementioned mobile terminal of the present invention searches for the access networks in the priority order of Wired network Wireless LAN WLAN Wireless PAN WPAN Wireless MAN or called BWA TDMA CDMA and OFDM for example but not limited to to maximize the wireless spectrum utilization efficiency and broadband services. However this access control order can be re defined by the mobile user with the mobile terminal of the present invention. Additionally the OWA mobile terminal of the present invention has the function to frequently search for the higher priority network access mode whenever the connection is in the low priority mode to optimize the network access control for the mobile terminal of the present invention.

The cellular mobile networks may include IP connection for slow mobile slow fading and or stable radio transmission environment and non IP traditional circuit switched wireless connection if the mobile speed is too fast or the radio propagation model is of fast fading.

Based on different underlying physical transmission mediums the IP connection of the aforementioned mobile terminal can be IP over wireline IP over WLAN IP over WPAN IP over BWA or IP over Cellular Mobile but not limited thereto.

The aforementioned IP connection refers to any connection of the Packet Division Multiplexed PDM networks including IP network and other packet switched networks. By default in the present invention PDM refers to IP or other packet switched connections.

When multiple cellular networks are available for the aforementioned mobile terminal to select the optimal cellular mobile link s either in IP connection or in non IP connection the selection method of cellular networks is based on the overall criteria of Best of Effort Simplicity and Convergence Inter networking QoS quality of service Network Performance Cost Effectiveness and Customer Services for each mobile user but not limited thereto. Such network selection table is maintained in the Network Access Optimizer of the aforementioned VR CS synchronized with the virtual mobile server as set forth above.

Whenever an IP connection is available the aforementioned mobile terminal synchronizes with the virtual mobile server in a real time and optimized manner.

The aforementioned IP Connection is selected and optimized by the aforementioned Mobile Terminal in the default priority order of IP over wireline network IP over WLAN IP over WPAN IP over BWA and IP over cellular mobile network as set forth above to maximize the wireless spectrum utilization efficiency but the aforementioned priority order can be changed by the aforementioned mobile user.

The aforementioned IP Connection for the aforementioned mobile terminal can be roamed among IP networks of wireline network WLAN WPAN BWA and cellular mobile network as set forth above in the aforementioned priority order when the aforementioned mobile terminal of the aforementioned mobile user moves across different IP networks as set forth above.

The Call Switch unit in the aforementioned VR CS manages the IP connecting and Non IP connecting functions.

The Mobile User Registration in the aforementioned VR CS includes Mobile User Identifier ID Mobile User s Connection Table Mobile User s Virtual Mobile Sever IP Address.

The aforementioned mobile terminal can connect to other mobile terminals in an Ad Hoc or Mesh network manner synchronized by the aforementioned VR CS and the aforementioned VMS whenever the aforementioned IP connection is available.

The aforementioned mobile terminal can seamlessly roam among WLAN WPAN BWA and cellular mobile network as set forth above synchronized by the aforementioned VR CS and the aforementioned VMS whenever the aforementioned IP connection is available.

The Virtual Mobile Server basically a Computer Server has a fixed Home IP address or an assigned roaming IP address by the aforementioned Home IP address connecting to the wireline Internet through Fibre Cable Modem Ethernet or DSL Digital Subscriber Loop but not limited thereto. This virtual mobile server becomes the mobile cloud server for one or multiple mobile terminals as set forth above which become the mobile cloud clients.

The aforementioned Virtual Mobile Server s supporting group or many of aforementioned mobile terminals can locate in the computer servers center or in the network data center.

The Virtual Mobile Server as set forth above comprises an important Terminal Processing Unit in operating the OWA Interface processing Signal processing Application processing and Networking processing for the mobile terminal as set forth above. The abovementioned Virtual Mobile Server tries to handle the processing tasks for the mobile terminal as set forth above as much as possible when the IP connection is established between them in order to simplify the system implementation and improve the system performance of the mobile terminal as set forth above.

The aforementioned Terminal Processing Unit further operates the following functions with the aforementioned mobile terminal bandwidth optimization and synchronization signals synchronization applications synchronization as well as network optimization and synchronization.

The aforementioned Terminal Processing Unit connects to the aforementioned mobile terminal through traditional IP connection improved IP connection such as IPv6 or other Packet Division Multiplexed PDM network connection.

The Virtual Mobile Server as set forth above maintains a synchronized and real time copy of the aforementioned Connection Table from the aforementioned Virtual Register and Call Switch VR CS .

The Virtual Mobile Server as set forth above also synchronizes with the aforementioned mobile terminal when the IP connection is established between them.

One Virtual Mobile Server as set forth above can support one or multiple or group of mobile terminals of the present invention wherein many such mobile terminals can share the same Virtual Mobile Server as set forth above.

The Virtual Mobile Server as set forth above supports such important services and applications as Network Optimization Mobile Relations Mobile Applications Mobile Internet Optimization Mobile Internet Applications Voice Video server Short Message Service SMS and Multimedia Message Service MMS server Game Center Data Center SDM Center etc. but not limited thereto.

The aforementioned Mobile Applications unit and Data Centers are utilized to host mobile application platforms on line stores on line servers cloud servers development suites users data and application data but not limited thereto.

The aforementioned Mobile Internet Optimization module processes the improved mobile Internet browsing searching networking accelerating computing and other applications for the aforementioned mobile terminal either in the synchronized mode when the IP connection is available or in the unsynchronized mode when the IP connection is not available.

The aforementioned Network Optimization module processes the cellular network selection and network access optimization for each mobile user wherein the network access table is updated and synchronized with the aforementioned VR CS real timely.

The Virtual Mobile Server as set forth above also provides the mobile terminal of the present invention of Special Services Management such as Location management Emergency call management Security and Safety management Sensor Networks and Systems management Services Optimization Digital spectrum management and mobile cloud Operation and Maintenance management etc. but not limited thereto.

The Virtual Mobile Server as set forth above can manage the aforementioned mobile terminal s to organize a sensor networks when the IP connection is available between the virtual mobile server and the mobile terminal s as set forth above.

The Virtual Mobile Server as set forth above can manage or control one or multiple aforementioned mobile terminal s connect to another or other multiple aforementioned mobile terminal s in an Ad Hoc or Mesh network manner when the IP connection is available among them.

The mobile terminal as set forth above frequently reports its current terminal IP address or called Visitor IP address to the aforementioned virtual mobile server when the IP connection is established and this aforementioned terminal IP address is updated in the aforementioned virtual mobile server when the aforementioned mobile terminal moves to different access point of wired network wireless LAN wireless PAN or wireless MAN or called BWA or some cellular mobile networks with IP connection.

The synchronized IP or PDM link between the mobile terminal and the virtual mobile server as set forth above include IP over WLAN IP over WPAN IP over BWA and IP over Cellular Mobile network but not limited thereto.

Lastly any computer server or network server with Internet connection and with an IP address can be configured to be an aforementioned Virtual Mobile Server associated with the mobile terminal s of the present invention.

The OWA Virtual Mobile Server as the Mobile Cloud Server of the present invention is not meant to be limited to the aforementioned system architecture and the subsequent specific description utilization and explanation of certain characteristics previously recited as being characteristics of this system architecture are not intended to be limited to such technologies.

The Mobile User Identifier ID can be mobile user s telephone number mobile user s personal ID mobile user s domain name or other defined ID information but not limited thereto.

To simplify the mobile terminal design and implementation it is necessary to move the processing tasks out of the mobile terminal system and to the mobile cloud server which in the present invention called virtual mobile server. Application processing including video processing multimedia processing gaming processing mobile Internet processing but not limited thereto consumes much processing power and system resources for the mobile terminal and therefore degrades the system performance.

When a high speed IP connection is established between the aforementioned mobile terminal and the aforementioned virtual mobile server the aforementioned OWA Application Optimizer moves the rich applications large data video big file web multimedia etc processing tasks remotely to the aforementioned virtual mobile server for processing then retrieve the processing results back to the aforementioned mobile terminal or save the results in the aforementioned virtual mobile server.

When the high speed IP connection is not available between the aforementioned mobile terminal and the aforementioned virtual mobile server the aforementioned OWA Application Optimizer limits the applications to voice message text and short web service locally in the aforementioned mobile terminal. In this case low speed IP connection or no IP connection is available the aforementioned OWA Application Optimizer may request the aforementioned VR CS or Mobile Gateway to reroute the incoming rich mobile call which consumes much processing power and or transmission bandwidth such as video call big file large data etc to the aforementioned virtual mobile server directly without proceeding to the aforementioned mobile terminal to save system and transmission resources. Then after the IP connection with enough bandwidth is established between the aforementioned mobile terminal and the aforementioned virtual mobile server the aforementioned mobile terminal can retrieve the incoming calls from the aforementioned virtual mobile server.

The IP connection as set forth above refers to the connection to the wireline network wireless LAN wireless PAN wireless MAN BWA or some cellular mobile networks as set forth above which is a broadband high speed connection to the Internet.

A classified relation networking optimization platform in open wireless architecture OWA mobile cloud terminal device comprises 

The aforementioned Mobile Cloud client optimizes performance of the aforementioned mobile terminal in both wireless transmission and terminal system processing and facilitates the aforementioned optimized wireless connections based on the aforementioned QoW considering cost bandwidth and spectrum efficiency as well as allocates processing tasks in the aforementioned mobile terminal to the aforementioned virtual mobile server as much as possible through the aforementioned optimized wireless connections for the aforementioned mobile terminal.

The aforementioned Mobile Relation Manager activates all of the aforementioned networking application services including the aforementioned video service the aforementioned web service and the aforementioned message text service for the aforementioned business networking the aforementioned personal networking and the aforementioned social networking when high speed IP internet protocol connection over the aforementioned WLAN the aforementioned WPAN the aforementioned BWA or the aforementioned Cellular mobile with required good the aforementioned QoW is available between the aforementioned mobile terminal and the aforementioned virtual mobile server and the aforementioned Mobile Relation Manager limits the aforementioned business networking the aforementioned personal networking and the aforementioned social networking to basic application services including basic web service with very limited bandwidth and the aforementioned message text service when only non IP connection over the aforementioned cellular mobile is available or slow IP connection with poor the aforementioned QoW is available between the aforementioned mobile terminal and the aforementioned virtual mobile server.

The aforementioned Networking Service OS provides a truly user centric relation classification service layer fully independent to underlying specific wireless transmissions of the aforementioned RTTs and the aforementioned OWA OS provides an open wireless access layer totally separating specific the aforementioned RTTs with higher layers including the aforementioned classification service layer and the aforementioned Networking Service OS.

Above the aforementioned classification service layer of the aforementioned Networking Service OS is an open Application layer with common or standard networking API application programming interface for the aforementioned business networking the aforementioned personal networking and the aforementioned social networking and the aforementioned open Application layer can be synchronized to the aforementioned virtual mobile server directly or indirectly through an office or home desktop computer or laptop computer.

The method of Mobile Relation Manager controlling relation management process comprises following steps 

The aforementioned QoW is basically on combined consideration of cost bandwidth and spectrum efficiency wherein a good QoW means a good transmission bandwidth with good cost effectiveness and spectrum efficiency including the aforementioned good QoW with the aforementioned IP connection over the aforementioned WLAN and a poor QoW means a poor transmission bandwidth or poor cost effectiveness though transmission bandwidth could be good or poor spectrum efficiency including the aforementioned poor QoW with the aforementioned IP connection over the aforementioned cellular mobile but costing too much for mobile user of the aforementioned mobile terminal wherein the aforementioned cellular mobile includes TDMA time division multiplex access CDMA code division multiplex access OFDM orthogonal frequency division multiplex and PDMA packet division multiplex access .

The aforementioned QoS is based on standard service quality performance including bandwidth latency or delay jitter or variation in delay synchronization packet loss ratio and packet error ratio.

The aforementioned QoW and the aforementioned QoS controls can fully ensure user centric instead of carrier centric mobile relation management of the aforementioned secured business networking and the aforementioned secured personal networking for the aforementioned mobile user with the aforementioned mobile terminal.

The aforementioned QoW requirements of the aforementioned combined consideration of cost bandwidth and spectrum efficiency can be preset by the aforementioned mobile user and can be reset updated or changed by the aforementioned mobile user for the aforementioned mobile terminal.

The aforementioned secured business networking and the aforementioned secured personal networking refer to enhanced security measures by the aforementioned Mobile DNA across the aforementioned wireless access layer the aforementioned classification service layer and the aforementioned application layer for the aforementioned business networking and the aforementioned personal networking between the aforementioned mobile terminal and the aforementioned virtual mobile server and the aforementioned unsecured social networking refers to regular measure without the aforementioned Mobile DNA processing across the aforementioned wireless access layer the aforementioned classification service layer and the aforementioned application layer for the aforementioned social networking between the aforementioned mobile terminal and the aforementioned virtual mobile server.

The aforementioned QoW is automatically calculated and updated by the aforementioned optimized wireless connections of the aforementioned mobile terminal in a preset automatic connection optimization order from highest to lowest of the aforementioned WLAN the aforementioned WPAN the aforementioned BWA and the aforementioned cellular mobile but the aforementioned automatic connection optimization order can be reset or changed by mobile user and the aforementioned updated QoW adaptively synchronizes with the aforementioned Mobile Relation Manager and the aforementioned Mobile DNA unit in the aforementioned Networking Service OS to optimize networking and service performance of the aforementioned business networking the aforementioned personal networking and the aforementioned social networking.

The aforementioned rich video service refers to long and or large video service consuming considerable bandwidth for the aforementioned mobile terminal the aforementioned rich web service refers to large files big data and or multimedia service consuming considerable bandwidth for the aforementioned mobile terminal the aforementioned moderate web service refers to regular file data picture photo image and regular web information consuming normal or much less bandwidth for the aforementioned mobile terminal and the aforementioned basic web service refers to basic web information of basic text based content small images small photos and small files with very limited bandwidth for the aforementioned mobile terminal.

The aforementioned OWA OS simplifies the aforementioned mobile terminal by moving much processing tasks to the aforementioned virtual mobile server and optimizing wireless connections through the aforementioned virtual mobile server and the aforementioned Networking Service OS simplifies the aforementioned relation networking for the aforementioned mobile terminal by adaptively classifying into the aforementioned secured business networking the aforementioned secured personal networking and the aforementioned unsecured social networking between the aforementioned mobile terminal and the aforementioned virtual mobile server wherein the aforementioned virtual mobile server operates and maintains complete and full the aforementioned relation networking services for the aforementioned mobile terminal but the aforementioned mobile terminal is provided with simplified the aforementioned relation networking services automatically controlled and optimized by the aforementioned OWA OS and synchronized with the aforementioned virtual mobile server.

The aforementioned Mobile DNA unit can be simplified reduced compressed or reconfigured subject to adaptive control of the aforementioned OWA OS to optimize whole system performance of the aforementioned mobile terminal both in wireless connections based on the aforementioned QoW and in wireless services based on the aforementioned QoS.

The aforementioned DNA Encoder the aforementioned Fingerprinting DNA module and the aforementioned Security Encryption module generate secured information frame to be transmitted securely from the aforementioned mobile terminal to the aforementioned virtual mobile server or the aforementioned mobile cloud server and the aforementioned virtual mobile server connects directly to wireline backbone networks and so can forward distribute reroute dispatch or switch the aforementioned secured information frame by the aforementioned Mobile DNA to other the aforementioned mobile terminals either inside same wireless network or outside the aforementioned same wireless network or to any other networks through the aforementioned wireline backbone network or through global Internet to construct end to end secured networking including the aforementioned secured business networking and the aforementioned secured personal networking among different the aforementioned mobile terminals through the aforementioned secured information frame by the aforementioned Mobile DNA synchronized with the aforementioned virtual mobile server.

The aforementioned DNA Decoder and the aforementioned Contents Claim can be inverse or reverse operations of the aforementioned DNA Encoder and the aforementioned Fingerprinting DNA into Contents and the aforementioned DNA Tracking and Detecting can be content based DNA detection.

The aforementioned DNA code is a mathematic function of the aforementioned user information the aforementioned device information and the aforementioned content information but can be simplified reduced shortened compressed or omitted in different applications wherein the aforementioned content information can be omitted in simple applications such as applications with low level security requirement or just using the aforementioned DNA code as secured networking ID or secured mobile ID.

The aforementioned DNA Match and Authorization facilitates effective blocking of unnecessary contents including virus spam spyware advertisement from coming to the aforementioned mobile terminal by matching the aforementioned detected DNA code with the aforementioned DNA database to protect security and optimize performance for the aforementioned business networking and the aforementioned personal networking.

The aforementioned OWA OS module can be applied to different wireless applications such as mobile wireless communication devices mobile smartphones mobile computing devices and wireless cyber physical systems CPS with many wireless sensor devices and networking devices.

The aforementioned OWA OS discovers rules and schedules different RTTs as set forth above for billions of the aforementioned cyber physical system CPS devices and the aforementioned mobile devices connecting to the aforementioned Mobile Cloud server wirelessly.

The aforementioned Networking Service OS is an open module adaptable to any common CRM customer relation manager platform or social networking platform.

The aforementioned Networking Service OS and OWA OS are open portable modules which can be installed in different systems in different application environments.

The aforementioned Networking Service OS provides secured mobile relation management of business networking personal networking and social networking among different mobile terminal devices through virtual mobile server as set forth above. The aforementioned Networking Service OS facilitates secured networking services between mobile terminal and virtual mobile server as set forth above and can further relay reroute or switch to other mobile terminal synchronized with the aforementioned virtual mobile server. The aforementioned one virtual mobile server can support one or multiple mobile terminals and multiple mobile terminals can share one virtual mobile server in the aforementioned secured networking service.

The aforementioned Mobile DNA contains unique user information device information and content information and can extend to low layer security information including transmission information MAC medium access control information and or IP Internet Protocol information to enhance the security measures from higher layers to lower layers for the mobile terminal as set forth above.

The aforementioned OWA OS is to converge and manage various RTTs wireless air interfaces for the mobile terminal in a cost effective and spectrum efficient way for the future user centric mobile communications.

The aforementioned Networking Service OS is an open service OS module optimized for the mobile wireless terminal device but can be utilized for other systems such as mobile wireless router mobile wireless gateway mobile wireless switching system or mobile wireless base station.

The aforementioned OWA OS is an open wireless OS module optimized for the mobile wireless terminal device but can be utilized for other wireless systems such as mobile wireless router mobile wireless gateway mobile wireless switching system or mobile wireless base station.

The aforementioned OWA OS and Networking Service OS work together to construct the strong security measure security pipe and security firewall for mobile terminals against any virus cyber attack and spam from the physical layer to MAC layer to network layer to service layer in addition to application layer fully protected through and synchronized with the aforementioned virtual mobile server in the mobile cloud infrastructure.

The aforementioned Mobile DNA if carrying or containing lower layer wireless transmission channel information and or MAC information can provide very strong secured measures for the mobile terminal in the aforementioned secured business networking and secured personal networking in the wireless over the air connections.

Since many modifications variations and changes in detail can be made to the described preferred embodiment of the invention it is intended that all matters in the foregoing description and shown in the accompanying drawings be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense. Thus the scope of the invention should be determined by the appended claims and their legal equivalents.

