---

title: Hosted video discovery and publishing platform
abstract: A hosted system provides any Internet user with the ability to quickly set up and customize a video channel, preferably as a web page or site that can be reached from any Internet-accessible device having a browser. The solution includes tools for use by channel site creators to customize look, feel, and page design. A particular web page or site may be associated with a given subject. A page or site that has such an association is sometimes referred to as “subject-specific.” Once a subject-specific channel is created, a site administrator or individual visitors can search and choose to bring those search results into the channel architecture. The system also enables a multiplatform search, and search results may be automatically populated into the channel content. The system enables the characterization of the material returned, preferably according to a user-generated taxonomy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09411888&OS=09411888&RS=09411888
owner: Magnify Networks, Inc.
number: 09411888
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120213
---
This application is a continuation of Ser. No. 11 773 487 filed Jul. 5 2007 which application was based on and claimed priority to Ser. No. 60 818 369 filed Jul. 5 2006.

Currently there are large collections of video clips available on web sites across the publicly routed Internet. Users of Internet accessible machines can navigate to such web sites and view those clips using a web browser or browser plug in. Also Internet search engines provide end users with the capability of searching for video clips from these sites. It is also known in the prior art for web site hosting entities to provide tools and templates to facilitate the creation of web pages or sites which pages or sites are then hosted by the entities for a recurring fee. These hosted sites also may include search capabilities.

Generally the system provides any Internet user with the ability to quickly set up and customize a video channel preferably as a web page or site that can be reached from any Internet accessible device having a web browser. The solution includes tools for use by channel site creators to customize the look feel and page design. A particular web page or site may be associated with a given subject. As used herein a page or site that has such an association is sometimes referred to as subject specific. Although not meant to be limiting once a subject specific channel is created a site administrator or individual visitors can search across the web and choose to bring those search results into the channel architecture. The system also enables a multiplatform search as an integrated part of a library build if desired search results are automatically populated into the channel content. The system also enables the characterization of the material returned preferably according to a user generated taxonomy. In one embodiment the taxonomy may be developed from a collaborative filtering review that extends beyond the search characteristics. The system thus facilitate the process of discovery and organization within a vertical channel of online video content drawing in videos from all over the Internet and collecting them in new topical contexts where they can be annotated by members of a social network online community or other group with a shared interest.

Preferably the system provides links to or embedded players for content that is hosted on multiple third party web sites. Web browsers then display these independently hosted videos in the context of the system s web pages. It is not required that the system copy host or serve those embedded videos which typically are delivered by third parties under their own terms and licenses.

The foregoing has outlined some of the more pertinent features of the invention. These features should be construed to be merely illustrative. Many other beneficial results can be attained by applying the disclosed invention in a different manner or by modifying the invention as will be described.

The system is a multi tier hosted service that can be customized and managed by the creators of affiliate sites. The client side interface preferably is based on current web technology standards including HTML 4 and CSS stylesheets. The web interface is compatible with standard browsers including without limitation Internet Explorer on Windows Firefox on multiple platforms and Safari on Mac OS X and Windows. Supporting tools include Adobe Flash player and available JavaScript libraries. Client side interfaces include without limitation dynamic web pages with JavaScript for visual effects and AJAX functionality embeddable widgets developed in Flash and HTML that can be placed on other sites RSS feeds that provide alternate ways of accessing content and the like. The server side application is built on a common software suite that includes Apache MySQL and Perl. The server side application is a generic Linux Unix Posix style environment and is easily portable to other equivalent server platforms. The system also supports H.264 and other encoding protocols.

The primary elements of the service architecture and the typical flows of requests between them are represented in . As noted above the main functional components of the system are implemented at an Internet accessible system site which is this case is reached by opening a browser to the domain magnify.net this domain is merely representative and it is a service mark of the assignee of this application . As can be seen the server side functionality is partitioned into several tiers as follows a web server tier which delivers static files and act as a load balancing proxy for the application servers an application server tier which combines dynamic page templates with custom logic and functionality a caching server tier which provides a shared repository for short term storage of frequently used data a database server tier which stores searches and updates all persistent information within the system and a messaging server tier which sends automatic notifications and accepts content from email or mobile SMS. A shared file service holds static content including site specific graphics and image thumbnails. The application server also interacts with other Internet services in a variety of ways video hosting post retrieve and embed video content from third party hosting services advertising networks retrieve and embed targeted advertising from third party ad servers and affiliated sites XML APIs enable integration with other sites operated by affiliates .

End users site creators and others access the system through web browsers . Site channels as will be described typically are associated with an affiliate s primary or home web site and these sites are identified by reference numeral . As indicated affiliate sites can embed live widgets or query the system s API. As will be described in more detail below the system discovers annotates and embeds video content from multiple video and search services which services are indicated by reference numeral . The system uses web sites and APIs to discover videos from such services. If desired videos and content from the application may be syndicated to user blogs and other third party sites . The system also interoperates with advertising services and networks to serve text banner and video advertisements. The system components illustrated in are a representative embodiment it is not required that all such components be included or that the identified boundaries be as shown. One of more components may be combined or associated with the system or other entities as the case may be without departing from the scope of the described subject matter. It is not required that the components be located within the same data center. As will be seen the site preferably comprises a set of machines that execute a set of processes. A function may be implemented in a distributed manner e.g. across a set of Intel processor or equivalent based Linux or equivalent based server machines that are connected in a local area network or in any other convenient manner.

Generally the system provides any Internet user with the ability to quickly set up and customize a video channel preferably as a web page or site that can be reached from any Internet accessible device having a web browser. The solution includes tools for use by channel site creators to customize the look feel and page design. A particular web page or site may be associated with a given subject. As used herein a page or site that has such an association is sometimes referred to as subject specific. Although not meant to be limiting once a subject specific channel is created a site administrator or individual visitors can search across the web and choose to bring those search results into the channel architecture. The system also enables a multiplatform search as an integrated part of a library build if desired search results are automatically populated into the channel content. The system also enables the characterization of the material returned preferably according to a user generated taxonomy. In one embodiment the taxonomy may be developed from a collaborative filtering review that extends beyond the search characteristics. The system thus facilitate the process of discovery and organization within a vertical channel of online video content drawing in videos from all over the Internet and collecting them in new topical contexts where they can be annotated by members of a social network online community or other group with a shared interests.

Preferably the system provides links to or embedded players for content that is hosted on multiple third party web sites. Web browsers then display these independently hosted videos in the context of the system s web pages. It is not required that the system copy host or serve those embedded videos which typically are delivered by third parties under their own terms and licenses.

A typical user interaction with the system begins with channel creation. As noted above in a typical use scenario an end user operating a client machine navigates to the site s home page via a web browser. In this embodiment a site creator an individual an entity or the like is directed to a web site where they are given the tools to create a channel name and to select a user name and password and are provided with site design and layout tools. illustrates a typical user interface at which the channel selection process begins. Using this interface the user can name the channel and link to an existing site. Selecting the Next button navigates the user to the user interface of . In this interface the user can identify the channel and associated keywords select a content category via the dropdown list selections determine whether to allow others to post videos on the site via the dropdown list selections indicate via the radio buttons whether the channel will be public unlisted or private and select a channel listing identifier that can be uploaded from the user s machine. Once the desired information is input in the form fields the user selects the Next button and is navigated to the user interface of . At this point the user can select from a set of one or more pre configured site templates. Of course if desired the system may present a site configuration tool to enable the end user to create a custom look and feel for the site. Upon selection of a site template the user selects the Create my site button to complete the channel creation process.

The system may provide a number of site administration tools. A channel called guitars has been created by the channel creation process described above and is available at the site guitars.magnify.net. is a representative page by which the user can manage account information for this site. This includes setting up and managing administrators enabling email or other invitations setting advertising revenue sharing options and providing access to site statistics. is a representative page by which the user can customize the site s options and configuration including site name and web address site description whether and to what extent community interaction with the site will be permitted video submission and peer review policies for the site as well as formats and playback options. The video submission and peer review policies identify whether the site creator intends to allow third parties to submit videos to the channel and or to permit third parties to peer review the videos on the channel. illustrates a screen by which the user can identify specific video and peer review options for the site and illustrates a screen by which the user can configure rating descriptors and options if peer review is enabled for the site. is a representative page by which the user can change the design of the site. is a representative page by which the user can manage the site s content. is a page by which the user can establish and manage advanced configuration options including building multiple sites into a network and managing that network embedding video community content on other sites adjusting user registration options and others.

The submission process just described and illustrated is not meant to be limiting. The system preferably also provides automated tools to facilitate the video discovery and submission process. illustrates a representative display page for this purpose. Using this page the user can find existing video clips by entering keywords in a search field and requesting the system to issue a search of one or more third party sites. This automatic find feature performs a meta search across the identified sites. The page also enables the user to either show the search results so that the user can select which videos should be included in the site or to automatically post a configurable number of discovered videos from each identified search source. Using the illustrated page controls the user can then direct the system to automatically repeat this auto find and posting process every configurable number of days and to group results according to one or more identified meta tags. Using the other illustrated controls the page also enables the user to exclude certain videos from the search results and to upload videos from the user s own computer or other identified source.

Videos submitted to the channel whether manually or through an automated process are available for viewing and peer review as is now described. illustrates a sample page comprising the site which page now includes the video that has been located as a result of the meta search and submitted via the submission process described in above. Of course if the auto find feature of was selected and the user had selected to post a configurable number of clips there would be more videos available for display. In any case assume now that a viewer whether the creator or any third party that has access to the site selects the video e.g. by clicking on the image . This action causes the video to be played in a player such as shown in . The player preferably includes a set of one or more controls including About Rate It Related Comment Tag Share and Problem. In this example the Rate It button has been selected. This action results in a set of user configurable sliders to be presented to the viewer. Using the sliders the viewer then can provide a review of the display content e.g. based on one or more user or system defined attributes. These attributes can be defined and configured using the submission and peer review options such as illustrated above in . illustrates the ratings panel that has been manipulated by the user to rate the video he or she is viewing or has viewed. The system preferably collects data from multiple viewers and then uses the information in the aggregate to fine tune advertising on the site and to provide advertisers and ad networks with better metadata concerning for example user generated video content. Typically the aggregated ratings information for a given video on the site or a set of videos is posted on the site. If a particular video receives poor ratings the video may be deleted from the site either manually or per an automatic setting that the administrator can establish.

As described and illustrated above users may perform a search and then choose videos found on external search engines to be included in the local video channel. References to selected videos preferably along with associated metadata retrieved from the search engine and any additional follow up queries preferably are saved in a local database and associated with the video channel through which they were selected. In addition and as described above with respect to users can perform a search and request that links to a certain number of matching videos be imported into the channel all at once. Preferably the system asks site creators for relevant search terms during the site creation process and with their approval can quickly import a collection of related videos into the channel by searching on each of those search terms. Videos and associated metadata that have been linked to a given channel preferably are displayed on that channel s web site. Videos hosted on third party sites that have been discovered and linked to by users of the site preferably are played through an embedded window in a channel specific page of metadata. Videos that cannot be played through an embedded window can be linked to instead of being shown directly. Moreover as also shown in an auto discover auto publish feature allows for a calendar based tool that searches discovers and posts a configurable number of videos every configurable number of days. This allows the site content to remain fresh and relevant.

As also described above the channel web site allows the site s creator and visitors to associate additional comments and other metadata with a particular video clip. Over time preferably the system builds up a set of descriptive metadata about the videos referenced on each site including for example the local comments reviews ratings and tags entered by that channel s users.

The system also enables site users to manage a structured set of tags including the ability to organize tags into categories define synonyms for tags and suggest replacements. Preferably the system presents user or system configured candidate tags that a user or viewer may then choose to apply to a particular video if desired. In addition the system s search interface may present user or system defined tags as search tags that a user or viewer may then choose to use as search criteria. If desired the system can present the suggested candidate tags or search tags in several ways including by popularity or according to the tag structure and relationships that have been defined for that site. Moreover the system may present sets of mutually exclusive candidate tags e.g. as a slider or equivalent single choice mechanism to indicate mutual exclusivity so that a user can choose to tag a clip according to the different tag attributes. In addition preferably each channel site maintains its own distinct collection of tags applied by users to videos including for example both system managed tags and other user entered tags. In this regard the system pre defines some tags with widespread applicability and enables the site administrator to provide local aliases so that a site creator can rename tags while maintaining the same taxonomy structure.

The channel web site allows the site s creator and visitors to perform searches on the local database of both discovered video metadata and site specific contextual metadata. Preferably the system can integrate or compare metadata about a video from multiple sites that reference the video. Moreover preferably the system performs searches for videos using integrated metadata e.g. from multiple sites although this is not a requirement as a search may be directed to a single site. Where meta searching is performed on integrated metadata preferably the system groups or associates videos based on commonalities in the integrated metadata. If desired the system can make recommendations to individual users for videos or channel sites based on the integrated metadata.

The system can use a channel ranking algorithm to facilitate discovery of channels from the primary site. That algorithm may rank channels based on various factors such as total visitors total new members site owner types of user interaction and other sorting and selection criteria. The channels can be subscribed to via RSS or other means and therefore can be made available on computers mobile devices and home television receivers such as Tivo Apple TV and other IPTV enabled devices connected to the public Web via IP or other protocols.

As can be seen in preferably the site includes one or more third party sourced advertisements that are related in some way with the site content. There is no requirement that advertisements be displayed from the site of course.

The system provides a managed or hosted service that is scalable and highly reliable. Multiple users create video channels which are web pages or sites . A web site is a set of one or more pages . After creating and customizing a channel site the site creator can list the site in a public directory of video channels or maintain the site private and can send electronic mail messages inviting people to visit the site. The channel site is associated with one or more DNS host names associated with the system. Using a search tool the creator or others having permission cause the system to meta search and then populate the channel with video content. Web users who visit a web address associated with the system receive a customized web interface that contains channel content and metadata and that allows for various user interactions such as viewing rating comment upload sharing playlist creation video communities and revenue sharing. The system provides an infrastructure by which a large number of sites that are looking to become part of an online ecosystem but that do not have the technology or focus on video required to reach a larger audience. By enabling videos to be identified and classified according to preferably user configurable site specific categories the system enables aggregated audiences for content that might otherwise not even be seen.

Of course although not described in detail one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the inventive system may interact with one or more e commerce ad serving payment promotion and distribution systems as required. One of more of such components may be performed natively or through web based or other interaction with third party systems.

While the above describes a particular order of operations performed by certain embodiments of the invention it should be understood that such order is exemplary as alternative embodiments may perform the operations in a different order combine certain operations overlap certain operations or the like. References in the specification to a given embodiment indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic.

The invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In one preferred embodiment the initial layout and reflow algorithms are implemented in software executing in one or more server machines. The invention or portions thereof may take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. A computer usable or computer readable medium can be any device or apparatus that can include store or communicate the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical or the like. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

As noted above preferably the client side interface is dynamic and affords end users with significant creative control over how videos are displayed and integrated to create their customized channels. Although not required the interface is conveniently enabled using AJAX Asynchronous JavaScript and XML which are a known set of web development techniques that enhance the web page s interactivity speed and usability.

While the system has been described in the context of video and video clip discovery and publishing this is not a limitation of the invention. The techniques of the invention may be used for photos graphics music software or other content.

While given components of the system have been described separately one of ordinary skill will appreciate that some of the functions may be combined or shared in given instructions program sequences code portions and the like.

