---

title: Systems and methods for customer relationship management
abstract: According to various embodiments, a social media message posted on a social media system is accessed. One or more similar messages determined to be similar to the social media message may be selected from a database of previously posted messages, based on, for example, an author, product, problem, keyword, etc., identified in the social media message. The similar messages may be displayed in a similar message recommendation list of a user interface. One or more relevant knowledgebase articles determined to be relevant to the social media message may be selected from a knowledgebase repository, based on, for example, a product, problem, keyword, etc., identified in the social media message. The relevant knowledgebase articles may be displayed in a knowledgebase article list of a user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09230257&OS=09230257&RS=09230257
owner: SAP SE
number: 09230257
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20121212
---
This application claims the priority benefits of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 618 541 filed Mar. 30 2012 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 646 052 filed May 11 2012 which are both incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This patent document pertains generally to tools for customer service and more particularly but not by way of limitation to systems and methods for customer relationship management.

In conventional approaches to customer service customer relationship management CRM call centers of companies receive customer inquiries via traditional channels of communication such as telephone calls and emails. The customer service agents of the company typically respond to the customers via the same channels of communication which allows the company to address any customer issues with a degree of privacy and confidentiality.

Now a new channel for expresing customer issues is emerging the Social Media space. For example many companies and other organizations have their own social media presence such as a TWITTER feed or a FACEBOOK page with a wall such that users can post messages regarding that company and its products that are widely viewable.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of some example embodiments. It may be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

A social activity management system described in various embodiments may receive social media postings from social media users and facilitate the management of a company s resources to resolve the problems that are described in the social media postings. The description of problems in the social media postings may be related to a company s products services. The problems may be resolved by utilizing the resources of the social activity management system including agents experts local and third party knowledgebases as well as a multiplicity of internal systems that facilitate the prioritization management and resolution of customer problems. To this end the social activity management system also referred to as Service OnDemand throughout this disclosure may be utilized to manage interactions with the customer until the problem is resolved.

The social activity management system may include a social activity management platform that is coupled to a database and a third party system that is coupled to another database . The social activity management platform may communicate over the network with the social media system the third party system and company personal e.g. service agent who operate client computers that are connected with the social activity management platform . The social activity management platform is further shown to be coupled to a database that stores information.

The social activity management system may communicate contextual content in a single user interface. For example content identified by the social activity management system e.g. similar messages knowledgebase articles product customer may be included in a single user interface as described in various embodiments below.

The queue prioritization system may be utilized to provide auto prioritization of the message queue containing incoming social media messages to help agents focus on high profile customers and key issues. The queue prioritization system may be utilized to evaluate incoming social media messages based on different parameters including but not limited to customer influence message sentiment customer level and service level agreement SLA . These parameters may be computed into a single priority score which determines and assigns a priority e.g. Urgent Normal and Low to each message.

The customer identification system may be utilized to automatically identify the customer and create a customer record in the database . The customer record may be created with information in the customers social profile. The customer identification system may further map the social customer identity e.g. social media system identity to an internal customer record. If there are multiple customers with same name the customer identification system may display a list of matching customers thereby enabling a service agent to identify a customer based on the available information.

The similar message system may be utilized to display messages that are similar to the social media message that is presently being processed by the service agent. The similar message may include a response solution that may be applicable to the social media message and utilized by the service agent to resolve the problem.

The recommended knowledgebase system may be utilized to recommend articles and other documents to the customer that may be helpful in resolving the problem of the customer. The recommended knowledgebase system may utilize the text analysis system to perform a text analysis and keyword identification of the social media message to identify a product and issue s in the social media message. The recommended knowledgebase system may utilize the identified product and issue to provide a recommendation of articles to the customer that may be attached as links in a response that is communicated to the customer. The recommended knowledgebase system may retrieve articles from a knowledgebase repository that is stored on the database see or via the third party system from a knowledgebase repository that is stored on the database see .

The interaction history system may be utilized to respond to the customer takes notes and collaborate internally with other agents in such a way that all the information is recorded to show a complete history of interactions with the customer in a chronological order. Accordingly reassignment of the social media message to another agent or escalation to another agent may not hinder the newly assigned agent in responding to the customer because the newly assigned agent may utilize the history of interactions.

The collaboration system may be utilized to locate specific colleagues and then collaborate with them to resolve the problem described in the social media message. The collaboration system may ensure that all collaborators have access to information regarding the problem described in the social media message. The collaboration system may further ensure that interactions between collaborators are contained within the interaction history associated with the social media message.

The expert finder system may be utilized to automatically identify and present a list of experts that are available to the company based on the text analysis of social media message. The expert finder system may utilize the text analysis system to identify the product and other keywords mentioned in the social media message and provide a list of recommended experts within the context of the social media message.

The consistent experience system may be utilized to automatically aggregate information about the social media messages other types of messages e.g. email telephone etc. and interaction history for a particular customer and automatically present this information to the service agent.

According to various embodiments the above described aspects and or functions of each of the systems may be implemented and or performed by the modules respectively see which may correspond to hardware modules or software modules executed by one or more processors.

In the current social media space there may be a large number of messages from customers regarding various issues with a company s products or services where the messages may be posted on a social media system for example. Applicants have determined that despite the large volume of such messages a pattern of similar and duplicated customer issues arise.

As a result a wide number of customer service agents handling these customer messages spend a great deal of time working on similar and duplicated issues while at the same time trying to find solutions and responses in different systems which hinders prompt and accurate resolution of customer issues and adds to the company costs.

According to an exemplary embodiment when an agent accesses a social media message to develop a response the similar message system may display similar messages received from the same or other users as well as the status of any response to the similar messages e.g. closed in process etc. . This may provide the agent analyzing a customer issue in a message with an immediate solution to resolve the current issue as well as providing the agent with the means to see how the others agent may be addressing or have addressed a similar problem. Further the similar message system may provide the agent with the ability to quickly contact and collaborate with the other agents in order to help solve the issue.

The customer identification area may include identification information describing the identity of the customer that posted the social media message . The identification information may have been retrieved from the social media message such as name username email location gender contact classification . For example the similar message system may request the text analysis system to perform a text analysis of the content e.g. words of the social media message to detect the aforementioned identification information in the social media message . The identification information may also be retrieved from the company s internal customer records e.g. customer information in or from publically available social media profiles. The identification information may include information such as message sentiment history internal customer classification as platinum customer or gold customer etc. that are obtained from the company s internal customer records or from publically available social media profiles. The identification information describing the customer may be generated by the customer identification system . According to one embodiment the customer identification system may include a customer identification module that generates the identification information.

The product identification area may include product information describing a product that was identified based on the social media message . According to an embodiment the product information may be identified with a text analysis of the social media message . For example the customer identification system may request the text analysis system to perform an analysis of the content e.g. words of the social media message in order to determine a particular product that is the referenced by the social media message. For example the similar message system may access an internal list that is stored in the database . For example the list may be embodied as product information as shown in that includes words or phrases that describe known products such as TV processor camera 600D and so forth that if detected in the social media message through text analysis indicates a particular product is being referenced by the social media message . The product identification area is then utilized by the similar message system to display the product information in the product identification area .

The message activity area may include a social media message and an interaction history of one or more messages that chronicle the resolution of a given problem. For example social media message may be positioned at the top of the message activity area that corresponds to a social media message posted by a user on a social media platform. The social media message may refer to a company a product of the company a service of the company and issue or problem etc. and may be assigned to an agent to resolve. The social media message may be displayed in the same format in which it appears on the social media system. The message is shown to be further supplemented with other information from the social media system including a time and place of posting the message the number of likes comments shares follows views repostings etc. of the message as well as any media files e.g. video audio photos that the user posted to the social media system in connection with the message. The message activity area also includes other messages that collectively provide a chronological history of all internal actions that have been taken by company employees e.g. agents product experts and project managers of the social activity management system described in with regards to the assigned message. As seen in the message activity area may include an internal message number assigned to the message by the social activity management platform a particular company customer service agent assigned to handle the message any messages posts or queries from the customer service agent to other company staff and any responses from the other company staff. Thus whenever any company employee accesses the user interface of the similar message system and accesses the corresponding message that employee can see the complete chronological history of all internal actions that have been taken by other employees with regards to this message. The message activity area may also show any communications with the external customer that posted the message.

The bottom of the message activity area may include a message composing area for a message author e.g. customer service agent to draft a message to respond to the customer that sent the message. The message may be sent directly to the customer or posted as a publically viewable comment in response to the customer s original message posting on the respective social media platform.

For example in one embodiment the similar message system may access an application programming interface that is provided by the social media system to retrieve the social media identity information that includes the identity of the user as registered on the social network system based on a message identifier or some other identification information obtained from a text analysis of the message. Thereafter the similar message system may transmit a message based on the identification information of the user via the API of the social media system . If the original message is a public posting on the social media system the similar message system may access application programming interfaces that are exposed by the respective social medial systems to post as a publically viewable comment in response to the customer s original message posting.

A solution finder area may include different types of information. For example as illustrated in the upper left area of the solution finder area may include a pull down selection box with a pull down selector in the top that may be used to select various possible contextualized solutions to resolve the problem described in the social media message that is current. Specifically the pull down selection box is illustrated in with a Similar Message option that has been selected from the pull down selector. The selection of this similar message option causes the similar message system to generate and display a similar message recommendation list that includes similar messages which have been determined by the similar message system to be similar and or relevant to the current message . The list may further include a most recent response generated by a customer service agent in response to each of the similar messages in the list . Such recent responses may be extremely helpful to the agent in resolving the current message.

The similar messages may be automatically identified based on a combination of factors. For example the similar message system may identify a social media message as similar responsive to identifying the message as being related to the same customer as listed in the customer identification area . Further the similar message system may identify a social media message as similar responsive to identifying a message as being related to the same product listed in the product identification area and or being associated with tags or tagged keywords that are associated with the current message. With respect to tags the similar message system may automatically perform a text analysis e.g. using the text analysis system of the current message to detect certain keywords in the social media message that is current and tag the current message with those keywords. e.g. tags thereby enabling an identification and display of similar messages that are associated with the same tags.

As illustrated in the top of the solution finder area below the pull down selection box is shown to illustrate various keywords tags e.g. autooptimizer zos and 60D that are identified in the current message by the similar message system and that are presently being used by the similar message system as search keywords to identify the similar messages. That is the similar message system identifies various keywords tags in the current social media message and then searches previously received social media messages in a message history database or customer service message database e.g. customer information and or message information in based on the aforementioned search keywords tags. The results of this search are populated in the similar message recommendation list and the tagged keywords used to generate the list are also displayed. The user can remove one or more of these search keywords by selecting the user interface element to the right of the keywords tags or add other keywords tags by selecting the user interface element to the right of the keywords tags. Responsive to any of the above described actions a search of previous messages may be performed by the similar message system based on the new keywords tags and the similar message recommendation list updated accordingly. The solution finder area at the top right also includes a search window to enter keywords to filter the similar messages that are already populated in the similar message recommendation list .

As seen in each similar message in the similar message recommendation list may include a status e.g. closed in process etc. an associated date and the customer service agent that is assigned to the similar message. Moreover each entry in the similar message recommendation list may also include the most recent response from a customer service agent to each particular customer message. When the user e.g. agent selects the sign next to a similar message in the list the corresponding customer service response may be automatically copied and pasted into the message composing area of the current message activity area as an editable draft response message to a current message . Thus customer service agents can efficiently build on from the previous work of other agents dealing with similar messages while avoiding any duplication of work.

When the user selects any of the similar messages displayed in the similar message recommendation list the similar message system may receive the selection and display a complete message activity similar to the message activity displayed in the message activity area with respect to the selected similar message. For example after the user selects any of the similar messages displayed in the similar message recommendation list the user interface of may be displayed. The user interface may display a portion of the similar message and includes a message activity tab that includes an interaction history of all communications back and forth between the user that posted that similar message and the customer service representatives that responded to that user. If the user selects the attached article tab than the user interface of is displayed where this user interface depicts any articles associated with that similar message or the customer service responses to that similar message.

When the user selects the paperclip icon next to a similar message in the list the similar message system may receive the selection and display user interface elements that may further be selected to retrieve attachments to the similar message. The attachments may include links documents articles other forum posting related to the similar message relevant community content and so forth. Each similar message in the list may also include a community icon that may be selected to retrieve community content crawled from community forums.

The similar messages listed in the list may be ranked and sorted for display based on their relevance e.g. the extent to which there is a keyword match customer match product match etc. with the current message displayed in the message activity area . The customer agent may also select a Like user interface element corresponding to a similar message and associated customer service response in the list to indicate that it is helpful in responding to the current message thereby moving the selected message and any other similar messages with keywords matching the current liked message to a higher position e.g. towards the top in the similar message recommendation list . On the other hand the current agent may also select a Dislike user interface element for a similar message and associated customer service response in the similar message recommendation list to indicate that it is not relevant or helpful in responding to the current message thereby moving the selected message and any other similar messages with keywords matching the current disliked message to a lower position e.g. towards the bottom in the similar message recommendation list or out of the list entirely. Such feedback may be stored and utilized the next time a new social media message with keywords similar to the current social media message is received in order to revise the ordering of the similar messages displayed in the similar messages list in conjunction with the new social media message.

Thus if a first message is received with the keywords broken lens and a first set of similar messages and corresponding customer service responses are displayed the user may look through the similar messages and provide feedback on which messages and customer service responses are helpful and which messages and customer service responses are not helpful. Thereafter the next time a social media message with the keyword broken lens is received the similar message system accesses the previous user feedback and may ensure that the similar messages that were previously found helpful are included in the similar message recommendation list while the previous messages that were not found helpful are not included in the similar message recommendation list.

The above described aspects and or functions of the similar message system according to an embodiment may be implemented and or performed by the similar message module see which may correspond to a hardware module or a software module executed by one or more processors.

While handling customer issues customer service agents typically spend a great deal of time identifying the product that is of concern to the customer and determining the appropriate solution. In particular the process of determining the appropriate solution generally involves finding relevant information in manuals documents or literature regarding the user s product where such information may be stored at disparate locations. Thus the customer service agent may be forced to search and use multiple systems including one or more knowledgebases of information regarding products manuals and paper documents. In fact issues are more often escalated to product experts expert agents due to lack of product knowledge on the level of junior agents.

According to an exemplary embodiment the recommended knowledgebase system may provide access to knowledgebase systems and search engines that are maintained by the company as well as knowledgebase systems and search engines that are provided by third party vendors.

For example the recommended knowledgebase system may request the text analysis system to perform a text analysis of the content e.g. words of the current message e.g. assigned message to identify a particular product and or issue e.g. problem that is referenced by the message. For example the recommended knowledgebase system may include an internal list or knowledgebase of keywords describing known products such as TV processor camera 600D and so forth e.g. product information in that may be utilized in the text analysis to identify a particular product that is described in the current message. Similarly the recommended knowledgebase system may include a list or knowledgebase of keywords describing known issue problem classification such as broken fix troubleshooting and so forth that may be utilized in the text analysis to identify a problem issue of a malfunctioning product that is described in the current message e.g. assigned message .

After the recommended knowledgebase system identifies the product and problem issue based on the text analysis and keyword identification process described above the recommended knowledgebase system may provide a recommendation of knowledge base articles to the agent based on the identified product and problem issue. The agent may in turn include a link to one or more of the identified articles in a response that is communicated to the customer thereby enabling the customer to retrieve the recommended knowledge base article s .

The solution tinder area may include a pull down selection box with a pull down selector to select either a Similar Messages mode as described above or a KB Articles mode e.g. knowledgebase articles of an exemplary embodiment as illustrated in . That is responsive to the user e.g. agent selecting the knowledgebase mode in the solution finder the recommended knowledgebase system may generate and display a list of recommended knowledgebase articles that are selected based on their relevancy to the product and issue problems as described in the current message . Such knowledgebase articles may be retrieved from knowledgebases e.g. knowledgebase repository illustrated in and or search engines that are provided by the company and third party vendors.

The knowledgebase articles may be automatically identified based on multiple factors. For example the recommended knowledgebase system may identify and display knowledgebase articles related to the same customer as listed in the customer identification area and or identify and display knowledgebase articles related to the same product listed in the product identification area and or identify and display knowledgebase articles that are associated with the same tags that are associated with the current message . With respect to the tags the recommended knowledgebase system may automatically instruct the text analysis system to perform a text analysis of the current message in order to detect certain keywords in the message and tag the message with those keywords e.g. tags thereby enabling an identification and display of knowledgebase articles that are associated with the same tags. For example the recommended knowledgebase system may search for knowledgebase articles that include the same keywords or are tagged with the same keywords e.g. from the company s knowledgebase system such as knowledgebase repository illustrated in as well as third party knowledgebase systems and search engines . A list of the knowledge base articles found by the recommended knowledgebase system or portions thereof such as a title abstract relevant quote etc. may be displayed in a knowledge base list . The knowledge base articles may include documentation product manuals product specifications FAQs troubleshooting guides and so on.

As illustrated in at an upper portion of the solution finder area various keywords tags e.g. autooptimizer zos and 60D identified in the current message are presently being used as search keywords to identify knowledgebase articles. That is the recommended knowledgebase system may identify various keywords tags in the current social media message and then search for knowledgebase articles e.g. in the company s knowledgebase system as well as third party knowledgebase systems and search engines based on the aforementioned search keywords tags. The results of this search may be populated in an knowledgebase article list and displayed in a user interface as described above. Further tagged keywords that are used to generate the list may also be displayed. The user may remove one or more of these search keywords tags by selecting the user interface element to the right of the keywords tags or add other keywords tags by selecting the user interface element to the right of the keywords tags. Responsive to any of the above described actions a search may be performed based on the new set of keyword tags and the knowledgebase article list is updated accordingly. The solution finder area at the top right also includes a search window to enter keywords to filter the knowledgebase articles already populated in the knowledgebase articles list .

As seen in and each entry in the knowledgebase article list includes an abstract or relevant quote e.g a quote including the relevant keywords discussed above of the knowledgebase article as well as a most recent modification date and the name of the most recent modifier. When the user e.g agent selects any of the knowledgebase articles that are displayed in the knowledgebase article list the user is able to see and browse the complete knowledgebase article within a pane within the user interface of i.e. without being directed to an external website as illustrated in the user interfaces of . illustrates a more detailed view of the user interface pane displayed the selected knowledgebase article.

Referring back to when the user selects the sign next to a knowledgebase article identified in the knowledgebase article list a link to the knowledgebase article may be automatically copied and pasted into the message composing area of the current message activity window as a draft response message to the current message . Instead or in addition when the user selects the sign next to a knowledgebase article identified in the knowledgebase article list the knowledgebase article may be automatically attached to a draft response message that is being composed in the message composing area of the current message activity window .

Referring back to the articles listed in the knowledgebase article list may be ranked and sorted for display based on their relevance e.g. the extent to which there is a keyword match customer match product match etc. with the current message displayed in the message activity area . The current agent may also select a like user interface element for a knowledgebase article in the knowledgebase article list to indicate that it is helpful in responding to the current message thereby moving the identified knowledgebase article and any other similar knowledgebase articles with keywords matching the current liked knowledgebase article to a higher position e.g. towards the top in the knowledgebase article list . On the other hand the current agent may also select a dislike user interface element for a knowledgebase article in the knowledgebase article list to indicate that it is not relevant or helpful in responding to the current message thereby moving the selected knowledgebase article and any other similar messages with keywords matching the current disliked knowledgebase article to a position that is lower e.g. towards the bottom in the knowledgebase article list or out of the list entirely. Such feedback may be stored and utilized the next time a new social media message with keywords similar to the current social media message is received in order to revise the ordering of the knowledgebase articles displayed in the knowledgebase article list in conjunction with the new social media message.

Thus if a first message is received with the keywords broken lens and a first set of knowledgebase articles are displayed the user may look through the knowledgebase articles and provide feedback on which knowledgebase articles are helpful and which are not helpful. Thereafter the next time a social media message with the keyword broken lens is received the similar message system accesses the previous user feedback and may ensure that the knowledgebase articles that were previously found helpful are included in the knowledgebase article list while the previous knowledgebase articles that were not found helpful are not included in the knowledgebase article list.

The above described aspects and or functions of the recommended knowledgebase system according to an embodiment may be implemented and or performed by the recommended knowledgebase module see which may correspond to a hardware module or a software module executed by one or more processors.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied 1 on a non transitory machine readable medium or 2 in a transmission signal or hardware implemented modules. A hardware implemented module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware implemented module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware implemented module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware implemented module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware implemented module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware implemented module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware implemented module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily or transitorily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware implemented modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware implemented modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware implemented modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware implemented modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware implemented module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware implemented module at a different instance of time.

Hardware implemented modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware implemented modules. Accordingly the described hardware implemented modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware implemented modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware implemented modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware implemented modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware implemented modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware implemented modules have access. For example one hardware implemented module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware implemented module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware implemented modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs . 

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that that both hardware and software architectures require consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard or a touch sensitive display screen a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

