---

title: Automated fulfilling of currency exchange requests over a computer network
abstract: A computer program product is provided for automatically fulfilling currency exchange requests received at a processor for a plurality of different currencies that are received from a plurality of different customers. Each request is a request to exchange an amount of funds of a source currency for funds of a target currency, or a request to receive an amount of funds of a target currency by exchanging source currency. At least some of the requests are fulfilled by automatically matching requests of one or more customers with requests of one or more other customers who have requested an exchange of the converse target and source currencies in an amount of currency sufficient to match a first portion of the requests, and by using amounts of currency in different currency types that are not received from the customers to fulfill a second portion of the requests.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08301533&OS=08301533&RS=08301533
owner: 
number: 08301533
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120215
---
This application is a continuation of copending U.S. Application Ser. No. 13 045 156 filed Mar. 10 2011 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 312 796 filed Mar. 11 2010 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 422 357 filed Dec. 13 2010 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The foreign exchange market is a worldwide decentralized over the counter financial market for the trading of currencies. It is also referred to as forex FX or currency market. The purpose of the foreign exchange market is to assist international trade and investment by allowing businesses to convert one currency to another foreign currency. For example it allows a U.S. business to import European goods and pay Euros even though the income of the business is in U.S. dollars. A typical foreign exchange transaction involves a party purchasing a quantity of one currency by paying a quantity of another currency.

According to the U.S. Census Bureau figures for U.S. International Trade in Goods and Services in 2009 the U.S. export market transacted over 1 Trillion worth of goods and services and the U.S. import market transacted over 1.5 Trillion. Foreign exchange transactions are required to facilitate this import export market.

Entities who need to perform an individual foreign exchange transaction typically pay significant fees as discussed in more detail below. The present invention provides a system that dramatically reduces the fees associated with such foreign exchange transactions.

An automated method is provided for fulfilling currency exchange requests received at a processor for a plurality of different currencies that are received from a plurality of different customers. Each request is a request to exchange an amount of funds of a source currency for funds of a target currency or a request to receive an amount of funds of a target currency by exchanging source currency. The automated method is performed via the processor. A currency exchange rate for the plurality of different currencies that may be exchanged is provided in the memory of the processor. The processor receives the currency exchange requests from a plurality of different customers.

In one preferred embodiment at least some of the requests are fulfilled by automatically matching requests of customers with requests of one or more other customers who have requested an exchange of the converse target and source currencies in an amount of currency sufficient to match a first portion of the requests using the currency exchange rate for the target and source currencies in the memory of the processor and using amounts of currency in different currency types that are not received from the customers to fulfill a second portion of the requests.

In another preferred embodiment at least some of the requests are fulfilled by automatically matching requests of customers with requests of one or more other customers who have requested an exchange of the converse target and source currencies in an amount of currency sufficient to match the requests of the customers using the currency exchange rate for the target and source currencies in the memory of the processor and using amounts of currency in different currency types that are not received from the customers to fulfill requests of customers if no match can be made.

Certain terminology is used herein for convenience only and is not to be taken as a limitation on the present invention.

The present invention is described in the context of a web portal referred to as World Currency which connects to its customers via an electronic network such as the Internet. However the scope of the present invention is not limited to operating via a web portal or any specific type of electronic network. World Currency is also interchangeably referred to herein as the system the Company COMP and WC. The computer elements of World Currency are interchangeably referred to as a processor and Core Engine . 

The most conventional prior art process presently in use in the context of this example operates as follows 

1. The customer USD importer exporter places a wire transfer at their bank for the amount of CAD that they are looking to send to their wholesaler in Canada paying in CAD. As part of the wire process the customer provides the bank with the appropriate wiring instructions.

2. The bank quotes a rate to the customer and the customer agrees to the rate. This rate is generally padded with a 3 6 spread over the spot or interbank rate to compensate for transaction costs and market fluctuation risks. In addition the customer is generally also assessed a wire fee often around 35 USD.

4. The bank places an order for the currency with a Correspondent Bank that they have an account relationship with. The Correspondent Bank quotes the bank with a different rate market has fluctuated which is also padded over the interbank or spot rate.

5. The Correspondent Bank ultimately procures funds by aggregating and placing large orders for CAD on the open market.

6. Once procured the bank electronically transfers the CAD funds to the account designated by the importer exporter on their wiring instructions.

1. The customer USD importer exporter places an order within the World Currency web portal for the amount of CAD that they are looking to send to their wholesaler in Canada paying in CAD. As part of the order the customer provides World Currency with the appropriate wiring instructions. Referring to the customer Importer Exporter would be an indirect customer of World Currency via its bank which is a direct customer of World Currency. In an alternative process the Importer Exporter could be a direct customer of World Currency in a manner similar to XYZ Corp shown in . 

2. World Currency quotes a rate to the customer and the customer agrees to the rate. This base rate is unpadded and reflects the true value of the spot or interbank rate. However the actual rate quoted to the customer may be padded to include the WC transaction fee embedded in the form of a spread.

4. World Currency attempts to match the customer s CAD amount with other World Currency customers seeking the offsetting amounts of USD.

5. World Currency procures currency by establishing the match and executing a currency swap between the customer and the other World Currency customer s .

6. Once cleared World Currency electronically transfers the CAD funds to the account designated by the customer on their wiring instructions.

Stated simply World Currency attempts to automatically match a currency exchange request of a particular customer with requests of one or more other customers who have requested an exchange of the converse opposite target and source currencies. For example a currency exchange request to receive Euros for dollars is automatically attempted to be matched with a converse request from one or more customers who wish to receive dollars for Euros. This process is shown in more detail in which is described below.

Elements of other than the following transaction elements and those that are self explanatory are discussed below with respect to the remaining figures 

OFAC Log OFAC is The Office of Foreign Assets Control which is an agency of the United States Department of the Treasury. The OFAC Log is a record of all currency exchange transactions that have been matched against the OFAC list of unauthorized entities.

Referring to CUST initiates the transaction flow process by entering the transaction within the Order Entry System in which CUST provides the processor with the defined values of AMT and CUR either by directly specifying the desired amount of CUR or alternatively specifying an amount of CUR and allowing the system to calculate the amount of CUR based on the RATE. CUST further provides instructions on how the system will handle the exact fulfillment of this order which include but are not limited to delivering the AMT funds of CUR to a specified bank account via electronic funds transfer or delivering the AMT funds of CUR to a bank card issued to CUST designed to be accessible by debit card and or credit card networks. To finish the order process CUST accepts the RATE AMT FEE and all current terms and conditions disclosed at the point of submission. When the order process as referenced in step is finished the currency exchange request is completely concluded from the customer s perspective i.e. the CUST order will be fulfilled and delivered and the currency exchange request now undergoes backend fulfillment described in steps through . Upon completion of backend fulfillment the target currency is transferred to its final destination based on the instructions presented by CUST at the time of original order placement. This process is somewhat analogous to a standard bank wire transfer wherein the customer authorizes and approves the wire transfer upon the placement of the request of order instruction and then there is a period of time before the designated payment arrives and clears at the target destination. Here COMP determines the time frame necessary to procure and deliver the CUST funds to the target currency and the CUST order will be processed and fulfilled within that established time frame for the original designated rate amount and fee established at the time of the CUST request. The CUST order will be fulfilled regardless of market rate fluctuation method of backend fulfillment i.e. customer matched and or non customer matched or the existence of other customer orders within the system.

Once the order has been submitted by CUST to the processor a fill notice is provided to CUST to verify the filling of the order request by COMP the transaction is placed in an open status and the order immediately enters into the backend fulfillment process. After the completion of the appropriate industry standard compliance checks a representation of this order is added to a Queue of current open demand for a designated source currency pegged against a designated target currency the current demand of CUR versus CUR . The Queue continually keeps track of the current outstanding portion of AMT required to complete the CUST transaction for the current Match Period and keeps results resident in the memory of the processor to facilitate the proper determination of Customer Matched and Non Customer Matched portions of the order request.

Orders are continually being requested and queued by the processor throughout the duration of the Match Period based on current customer demand. The end of the Match Period is determined by the processor and may be triggered by the earliest of the following events 

At the close of each Match Period a Matching Engine is invoked by the processor to iterate through the Queue to first search for a condition where the system can match some or all AMT of the CUST order with AMT of a CUST order. The processor identifies the aggregate balance due within each currency pair as the Customer Matched amount and the remaining portion becomes the Non Customer Matched amount.

Customer Matched procedures are followed for each currency pair on the portion of the order requests placed throughout the duration of the Match Period determined by the processor as Customer Matched by the Matching Engine process . The processor registers the appropriate amount of AMT required from the CUST orders necessary to satisfy the Customer Matched portion of the order AMT A .

Non Customer Matched procedures are followed for each currency pair on the portion of the order requests placed throughout the duration of the Match Period determined by the processor as Non Customer Matched by the Matching Engine process . The processor registers the appropriate amount of AMT required to satisfy the Non Customer Matched portion of the order AMT B . The processor automatically places a foreign exchange order for the required funds with an FX Provider. The FX Provider will be either an external third party provider of foreign exchange services in which COMP will have a pre established relationship e.g. with a prime broker or an internal source of funds e.g. retained earnings as defined by COMP and held resident in the memory of the processor.

At the conclusion of each business day as determined by COMP through the setting of the End of Day cutoff time each party that holds a balance with COMP CUST CUST and or FX Provider will have until the end of the next business day to transmit their balances to the COMP Clearing Account. This begins the Funds Availability process in which COMP verifies and settles all balances before fulfilling the customer orders. All incoming order requests placed within the system after the End of Day cutoff time are booked as transactions recorded on the following business day.

As previously mentioned at the end of the current business day of the order request CUST is required to electronically transmit AMT T of CUR to the COMP Clearing Account for the source currency. This electronic transmission is external to the computer system and is not initiated by COMP. This transaction will satisfy the balance due from CUST for the entire business day s allotment of currency requests.

In the exact same manner that CUST is required to electronically transmit balances to COMP all other customers with currency requests for the current business day are required to electronically transmit balances to COMP. Those amounts from these other customers in which the system processor has identified as Customer Matched portions of the CUST by the Matching Engine process are expected to satisfy the balance due from CUST to account for the Customer Matched portion of the currency request. This electronic transmission is external to the computer system and is not initiated by COMP.

Those amounts identified by the system processor during the Matching Engine process and in which the system has ordered funds from FX Provider as described in the Non Customer Matched procedures are required to be electronically transmitted to the COMP Clearing Account to satisfy the remaining balance needed to complete the fulfillment of CUR funds for CUST. This electronic transmission is external to the computer system and is not initiated by COMP.

In the event of a failure by CUST in which COMP determines the inability of CUST to supply the necessary AMT C amount of CUR to properly fund the CUST order request within the necessary timeframe if there are portions of Customer Matched funds required COMP will draw on the pre established collateral account in effect for CUST and COMP will use those funds to place an order with the FX Provider for the outstanding balance of CUR required to fulfill the CUST order request. This step in the process guarantees that the CUST order request will be successfully fulfilled even in the event of a failure by CUST. Similarly in the event of a failure by CUST to supply the necessary AMT T amount of CUR COMP will draw on the pre established collateral account in effect for CUST.

Once the funds are procured and credited to the COMP CUR clearing account and available for use and after the completion of appropriate industry standard compliance checks the processor proceeds to originate a debit for the AMT of CUR funds from the COMP CUR clearing account and follow the fulfillment instructions set forth by CUST as defined at the point of Order Entry . The transaction is finally placed in a closed status and a final notice of transaction completion is sent to CUST.

The transaction flow in guarantees that the CUST order request will always be successfully fulfilled at the rate quoted to the customer by the processor at order submission RATE . This rate is the rate provided in the memory of the processor. The guarantee exists whether or not a matching customer e.g. CUST enters an order during the MATCH PERIOD. The guarantee also exists if a matching customer enters an order during the MATCH PERIOD and then fails to supply the necessary amount of currency or fails to pass the internal compliance checks. Of course if CUST fails to pass the internal compliance checks and or fails to successfully transmit AMT T of CUR to the COMP Clearing Account for the source currency the CUST fulfillment guarantee would not be honored.

In the transaction flow of the CUST order request will always be successfully fulfilled within a predetermined amount of time after order submission unless CUST fails to pass the internal compliance checks and or fails to successfully transmit AMT T of CUR to the COMP Clearing Account for the source currency. The fulfillment time will not be affected by the lack of an exchange request of the converse target and source currencies. Since the MATCH PERIOD is a period of time defined by the company that periodically ends and since all currency exchange requests are processed at the end of each MATCH PERIOD and since backend fulfillment is performed within a known time period e.g. 2 business days then the CUST order request will always be successfully fulfilled within a predetermined amount of time after order submission.

When the processor is triggered to change the currency conversion rate the system starts by setting the Rate Timeout to Yes and as further referenced in designating the end of the Match Period. This allows for all remaining open customer orders to follow the Non Customer Matched procedures and as further referenced in . Once all orders have been processed the Rate Timeout is reset to No and the processor uses a third party rate provider to obtain current conversion rates used to update system rates for each cross currency.

Upon successful verification of all outstanding items both by the processor and internal staff the customer account is placed in an active status and the customer is authorized to use the system.

The Presentation Layer houses all of the front end customer and staff facing web systems and services used by the present invention to deliver content to the end users based on the selected and authorized medium. Currency exchange requests are submitted via the Presentation Layer to Core Engine along with all other information that must be received by the customer to facilitate the currency exchange request.

The Core Processing Layer is where the central server system resides in the form of the Core Engine . This processor represents all of the systems and code used to execute the core functionality of the present invention. Back end External services interact with the Core Engine in order to feed data back and forth between external systems and third party vendors. The matching engine discussed above is part of the Core Engine .

The Core Engine also provides authentication of the inputs received from the Presentation Layer . The core engine also provides database abstraction such as a database abstraction layer which is an application programming interface API that unifies the communication between a computer application and databases here the Database Cluster of the Database Layer .

The Database Layer maintains the database storage engines and the necessary replication of data to offsite secured locations.

Using the processes and machine hardware described above various embodiments of the present invention may be implemented. Customer currency exchange requests are fulfilled by matching the requests with a combination of other customer currency exchange requests and non customer currency. Non customer currency may be obtained from any combination of sources other than a customer currency exchange request such as a currency exchange marketplace and or a currency reserve i.e. amounts of currency maintained in the World Currency processor both shown in . In the currency exchange marketplace is referred to as Third Party Procurement and the currency reserve is referred to as Internally Funded. Once a match is made the amounts of currency associated with the match become unavailable for subsequent matches.

One preferred embodiment of the present invention provides an automated method of fulfilling a currency exchange request received at a processor from a particular customer. The processor receives currency exchange requests for a plurality of different currencies from a plurality of different customers. Each request is either a request to exchange an amount of funds of a source currency CUR for funds of a target currency CUR or a request to receive an amount of funds of a target currency CUR by exchanging source currency CUR . The automated method is performed via the processor. The method operates as follows 

1. A currency exchange rate for the plurality of different currencies that may be exchanged is provided in a memory of the processor represented in the Rates entity shown in .

2. The currency exchange request from the particular customer is received at the processor and is fulfilled in the following manner 

a. The request of the particular customer is automatically matched with requests of one or more other customers who have requested an exchange of the converse target and source currencies using the currency exchange rate for the target and source currencies in the memory of the processor.

b. If no match can be made in step a then use amounts of currency in different currency types that are not received from the customers to fulfill the request of the particular customer.

Consider the example of currency exchange requests between euros and dollars. If during a particular time period more customers are requesting to receive euros in exchange for dollars than there are customers requesting to receive dollars in exchange for euros in total amounts of currency then there will be some customers for which no match can be made during the time period. Those customers will have their requests fulfilled with non customer amounts of currency.

The match in step a may be a partial match of the amount of the currency exchange request. If a partial match can be made then a first portion of the request is fulfilled in step a and a second portion of the request is fulfilled in step b. The second portion is preferably the remaining portion of the request. This process is illustrated in .

In one alternative process of this embodiment the match in step a must be a match of the entire amount of the currency exchange request i.e. a complete match . Otherwise the request is fulfilled using non customer currency. In this alternative process the partial match decision box shown in would be ignored. The use of partial matches is preferred since it promotes efficiency of the system and reduces the amount of non customer currency required to fulfill requests. However there may be instances where it may be desirable for the system not to fulfill requests with partial matches.

Another preferred embodiment of the present invention provides an automated method of fulfilling a currency exchange request received at a processor from a particular customer. The processor receives currency exchange requests for a plurality of different currencies from a plurality of different customers. Each request is either a request to exchange an amount of funds of a source currency for funds of a target currency or a request to receive an amount of funds of a target currency by exchanging source currency. The automated method is performed via the processor. The method operates as follows 

1. A currency exchange rate for the plurality of different currencies that may be exchanged is provided in a memory of the processor.

2. The currency exchange request from the particular customer is received at the processor and is fulfilled by a combination of the following methods 

a. Automatically match the request of the particular customer with requests of one or more other customers who have requested an exchange of the converse target and source currencies in an amount of currency sufficient to match a first portion of the request of the particular customer using the currency exchange rate for the target and source currencies in the memory of the processor.

b. Use amounts of currency in different currency types that are not received from the customers to fulfill a second portion of the request of the particular customer.

This embodiment covers any situation wherein first and second portions are fulfilled from a combination of customer and non customer currency. Thus it is similar to the previously described embodiment when partial matching occurs since a first portion of the request will be fulfilled with amounts of currency from one or more other customers and a second portion of the request will be fulfilled with non customer currency. However it also covers embodiments wherein non customer currency is used even when customer currency is still available for matching i.e. there is still unmatched customer currency associated with an exchange of the converse target and source currencies . In this embodiment the partial match decision box shown in may reflect either i an actual partial match wherein there is a shortfall that prevents a complete match or ii a partial match that is forced by the system even though a complete match could be made. Again it is preferred to use customer currency when it is available because it promotes efficiency of the system and reduces the amount of non customer currency required to fulfill requests. However there may be instances where it may be desirable for the system to deliberately use some non customer currency to fulfill a request even when customer currency is available to fulfill the entire request. Again the second portion is preferably the remaining portion of the request.

Yet another preferred embodiment of the present invention provides an automated method of fulfilling currency exchange requests received at a processor for a plurality of different currencies that are received from a plurality of different customers. Each request is either a request to exchange an amount of funds of a source currency for funds of a target currency or a request to receive an amount of funds of a target currency by exchanging source currency. The automated method is performed via the processor. The method operates as follows 

1. A currency exchange rate for the plurality of different currencies that may be exchanged is provided in a memory of the processor.

3. At least some of the requests are fulfilled using the processor by a combination of the following methods 

a. Automatically match requests of one or more customers with requests of one or more other customers who have requested an exchange of the converse target and source currencies in an amount of currency sufficient to match a first portion of the requests using the currency exchange rate for the target and source currencies in the memory of the processor.

b. Use amounts of currency in different currency types that are not received from the customers to fulfill a second portion of the requests.

This embodiment is similar to the previously described embodiment except that it describes a process from the perspective of servicing a plurality of different customers. In the preferred embodiment of the present invention a plurality of different customers simultaneously enter currency exchange requests. As discussed above the currency exchange requests in the queue are cleared at the end of each predetermined time period which preferably coincides with the time period wherein the currency exchange rate is updated.

1. Debit card Funds of target currency for at least one of the fulfilled currency exchange requests may be loaded onto a debit card for subsequent use by the customer who requested the currency exchange. Referring to a Debit Card Provider receives account data from World Currency customer accounts which contain the target currency resulting from the customer s currency exchange request and creates customer debit cards therefrom. In this embodiment the fulfillment instructions referred to in include a request for a debit card loaded with the target currency amount.

2. Timing of automatic matching show a process wherein match requests are automatically fulfilled upon receipt and in order of receipt and then cleared from the queue at the end of a predetermined time period which is preferably when the currency exchange rates are updated. However in an alternative embodiment the match requests may be batched during each predetermined time period and then fulfilled either periodically during the predetermined time period or immediately before the next currency exchange rate update using a predefined fulfillment order algorithm.

3. Fulfillment using non customer amounts of currency When non customer amounts of currency are used to fulfill all or part of a particular currency request the step of obtaining the non customer amounts of currency may be performed at the end of a predetermined time period such as when the currency exchange rates are updated which occurs periodically as shown in and . Alternatively the step of obtaining the non customer amounts of currency may be performed either immediately after the matching step fails if no partial matching occurs or immediately after partial matching occurs. However the embodiment shown in and is preferred because it allows for more complete matching thereby reducing the amount of currency that needs to be fulfilled from non customer entities. Stated simply a partial currency match may be able to be completely matched or more fully partially matched but not completely matched as more requests are received during the predetermined time period.

4. Currency exchange rate The currency exchange rate for each of the plurality of different currencies is preferably preset by the processor. The currency exchange rate for the plurality of currencies may be fixed during the predetermined time period. Alternatively the currency exchange rate for the plurality of currencies may have a predetermined spread during the predetermined time period and the currency exchange rate for each customer is the rate that exists when a request is received by the processor from a customer.

In one alternative embodiment the currency exchange rate may be tolerance based and time based in that it may change upon the current market rate dropping below or exceeding a tolerance or threshold level above or below the set rate in effect all of which would not exceed a predetermined time period. For example if the predetermined time period is set to 6 hours and the threshold for USD to EUR is 1 then the rate would also re capture within the 6 hour period and potentially several times if the current market rate rises or falls in excess of 1 of the current USD EUR rate captured within the system but the rate will change at least every 6 hours guaranteed even if the threshold is not met.

In the preferred embodiment of the present invention the currency exchange rate adjustment process is transparent to the customer. Thus the customer s expectations of the system would not be affected by the particular combination of tolerance vs. time based rate adjustments employed by the system.

5. Customers Referring to if the customer is a single individual or business then the customer is a single customer entity. However if the customer is a financial institution acting on behalf of a plurality of individuals and or businesses then the customer may actually be or represent a plurality of customer entities. In one preferred embodiment the plurality of different customers are unaffiliated with each other. If some of the customers are financial institutions this means that the financial institutions are unaffiliated with each other. For example they would not be different offices or branches of the same financial institution e.g. German branch of Deutsche Bank and U.S. branch of Deutsche Bank . However the scope of the present invention includes embodiments wherein the different customers may be affiliated with each other.

6. Customer notification of fulfillment methodology The customers are preferably not informed as to whether their particular currency exchange requests were fulfilled entirely from or partially from other customer requests or from non customer entities. However to promote community affiliation which may be advantageous from a marketing standpoint the customers may be informed of the total or their individual breakdowns in currency fulfillment. For example the following types of messages may be delivered to the customers 100 of your currency exchange request was fulfilled by an exchange with one or more other customers 80 of all currency exchange requests in the system on the date of the customer s request were fulfilled by exchanges with other customers.

The processor discussed above may be any general purpose computer such as a personal computer PC that runs a Microsoft Windows operating system or a mainframe computer running a UNIX type operating system.

The present invention may be implemented with any combination of hardware and software. If implemented as a computer implemented apparatus the present invention is implemented using means for performing all of the steps and functions described above.

When implemented in software the software code can be executed on any suitable processor or collection of processors whether provided in a single computer or distributed among multiple computers.

The present invention can also be included in an article of manufacture e.g. one or more computer program products having for instance computer readable storage media. The storage media has computer readable program code stored therein that is encoded with instructions for execution by a processor for providing and facilitating the mechanisms of the present invention. The article of manufacture can be included as part of a computer system or sold separately.

The storage media can be any known media such as computer memory one or more floppy discs compact discs optical discs magnetic tapes flash memories circuit configurations in Field Programmable Gate Arrays or other semiconductor devices or other tangible computer storage medium. The storage media can be transportable such that the program or programs stored thereon can be loaded onto one or more different computers or other processors to implement various aspects of the present invention as discussed above.

The computer used herein may be embodied in any of a number of forms such as a rack mounted computer a desktop computer a laptop computer or a tablet computer. Additionally a computer may be embedded in a device not generally regarded as a computer but with suitable processing capabilities including a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a smart phone or any other suitable portable mobile or fixed electronic device.

The computer may have one or more input and output devices. These devices can be used among other things to present a user interface. Examples of output devices that can be used to provide a user interface include printers or display screens for visual presentation of output and speakers or other sound generating devices for audible presentation of output. Examples of input devices that can be used for a user interface include keyboards and pointing devices such as mice touch pads and digitizing tablets. As another example a computer may receive input information through speech recognition or in other audible format.

Such computers may be interconnected by one or more networks in any suitable form including as a local area network or a wide area network such as an enterprise network or the Internet. Such networks may be based on any suitable technology and may operate according to any suitable protocol and may include wireless networks wired networks or fiber optic networks.

The various methods or processes outlined herein may be coded as software that is executable on one or more processors that employ any one of a variety of operating systems or platforms. Additionally such software may be written using any of a number of suitable programming languages and or programming or scripting tools and also may be compiled as executable machine language code or intermediate code that is executed on a framework or virtual machine.

The terms program or software are used herein in a generic sense to refer to any type of computer code or set of computer executable instructions that can be employed to program a computer or other processor to implement various aspects of the present invention as discussed above. The computer program need not reside on a single computer or processor but may be distributed in a modular fashion amongst a number of different computers or processors to implement various aspects of the present invention.

Computer executable instructions may be in many forms such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.

Data structures may be stored in computer readable media in any suitable form. For simplicity of illustration data structures may be shown to have fields that are related through location in the data structure. Such relationships may likewise be achieved by assigning storage for the fields with locations in a computer readable medium that conveys relationship between the fields. However any suitable mechanism may be used to establish a relationship between information in fields of a data structure including through the use of pointers tags or other mechanisms that establish relationship between data elements.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes could be made to the embodiments described above without departing from the broad inventive concept thereof. It is understood therefore that this invention is not limited to the particular embodiments disclosed but it is intended to cover modifications within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

