---

title: Wireless communication device with circuitry to invoke a physically independent non-IP communication capability
abstract: In a wireless communication device, first micro-processing circuitry drives a user interface and drives a wireless transceiver to exchange IP communications. A detection system detects a malicious condition related to the IP communications and responsively generates a circuit transfer signal. Switching circuitry de-couples the first micro-processing circuitry from the user interface and from the wireless transceiver responsive to the circuit transfer signal. Second micro-processing circuitry then drives the user interface and drives the wireless transceiver to exchange non-IP communications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08856929&OS=08856929&RS=08856929
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08856929
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120313
---
Wireless devices communicate with wireless networks using various wireless communication protocols such as Long Term Evolution LTE and Wireless Fidelity WiFi . Examples of these wireless devices include smart phones media players computers and the like. In many cases the wireless devices use the wireless networks to exchange Internet Protocol IP communications with Internet servers or other IP systems. The wireless devices and wireless networks exchange these IP communications using underlying wireless protocols like WiFi or LTE.

Unfortunately wireless devices and wireless networks are under constant threat of malicious attack. For example a denial of service attack may be directed at the control servers in the wireless communication network. This attack may consume waste enough network resources to render IP communications across the network effectively useless. In other examples software viruses may be directed at particular applications operating systems or user devices. The viruses may infect the wireless communication devices to render their IP communications with the network effectively useless.

In a wireless communication device first micro processing circuitry drives a user interface and drives a wireless transceiver to exchange IP communications. A detection system detects a malicious condition related to the IP communications and responsively generates a circuit transfer signal. Switching circuitry de couples the first micro processing circuitry from the user interface and from the wireless transceiver responsive to the circuit transfer signal. Second micro processing circuitry then drives the user interface and drives the wireless transceiver to exchange non IP communications.

Wireless communication network comprises at least one wireless access node having network connectivity to other devices servers and the like. Wireless transceiver and the wireless access node s in network communicate over a wireless protocol such as Long Term Evolution LTE Wireless Fidelity WiFi or some other wireless format. Wireless communication network could be a small WiFi network a large LTE network or some other type of network that provides wireless access to networks devices servers and the like.

In wireless communication device micro processing circuitry processes operating software to drive user interface to present information to user . Micro processing circuitry also processes operating software to drive wireless transceiver to exchange wireless signals transporting Internet Protocol IP communications with wireless communication network . Note that IP communications are transported by an underlying wireless protocol such as LTE or WiFi. These user and network interactions might support emailing on line gaming voice communications data transfers or some other communication based service.

Electronic detection system detects a malicious condition related to IP communications . The malicious condition could be a large scale denial of service attack on various IP based networks and systems. The malicious condition could be viral software operating on device and possibly other like devices to inhibit communication service at the IP layer. The malicious condition could be some other condition that restricts IP communications.

The detection of the malicious condition could take various forms. The detection could be based on the receipt and processing of an IP alarm from wireless communication network . The detection could be based on the processing of various data such as IP failures errors and malicious activities that is either available within device or that is obtained over wireless communication network . For example the detection could be the determination that the amount of IP communication failures during a given time period exceeds a threshold and this determination and or this threshold could be initiated and controlled by instructions from wireless communication network . Electronic detection system comprises software and circuitry that is typically distributed across circuitry and software although electronic detection system may be primarily hosted by circuitry and software .

In response to detecting the malicious condition electronic detection system generates and transfers a circuit transfer signal to switching circuitry . In response to the circuit transfer signal switching circuitry de couples micro processing circuitry from user interface and from wireless transceiver . In some examples the de coupling is physical. In other examples the de coupling is logical although any logical decoupling should be resistant to any viral control of micro processing circuitry .

In response to the malicious condition or the circuit transfer signal micro processing circuitry processes operating software to drive user interface to present information to user . Micro processing circuitry also processes operating software to drive wireless transceiver to exchange wireless signals transporting non IP communications with wireless communication network . Note that non IP communications are transported by an underlying wireless protocol such as LTE or WiFi.

Note that wireless communication network performs reciprocal communication signal processing to handle the non IP communications possibly by using physically separate circuitry and software as described herein for wireless communication device . These user and network interactions might also support emailing on line gaming voice communications data transfers or some other communication based service.

In some examples micro processing circuitry processes operating software to drive wireless transceiver to exchange wireless signals that indicate the use of non IP communications to wireless communication network . For example transceiver might insert a flag or code in an LTE or WiFi overhead location to indicate the transfer of the non IP communications Likewise wireless communication network may direct the use of the non IP communications by inserting a corresponding code or instruction in an overhead location of the wireless protocol. For example transceiver might receive a special use non IP communications code in the overhead portion of the LTE or WiFi signals. The reception of this special code from network might represent the detection of a malicious condition as described herein.

Operating software includes a non IP communications module that operates at layer three of the Open Systems Interconnect OSI model. The non IP communications module may utilize protocols such as Message Transfer Part MTP Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM Frame Relay FR X.25 or some other OSI layer 3 communication software.

Micro processing circuitry may be pre coupled to user interface and wireless transceiver or switching circuitry could couple micro processing circuitry to user interface and wireless transceiver in response to the circuit transfer signal. In some examples the coupling is physical. In other examples the coupling is logical although any logical coupling should be resistant to viral control of circuitry .

Micro processing circuitry is physically separated from micro processing circuitry . In some examples micro processing circuitry is on the motherboard but micro processing circuitry is not on the motherboard. In some examples micro processing circuitry and micro processing circuitry comprise separate and mutually exclusive micro processor chipsets chips and or processing cores.

In wireless communication device micro processing circuitry processes operating software to provide Application Programming Interface API to operating software in micro processing circuitry . Likewise micro processing circuitry processes operating software to communicate over API with operating software . Typically operating software provides API to various other applications executing on wireless communication device .

In some examples electronic detection system is hosted by micro processing circuitry and operating software . In these examples electronic detection system may communicate over API to detect the malicious condition or initiate the circuit transfer signal. For example electronic detection system may first communicate over API to drive user interface to notify user and obtain user consent before generating the circuit transfer signal to invoke the non IP communication capability.

Electronic detection system monitors to detect a malicious condition related to IP communications . The malicious condition could be a network attack viral software or some other condition that restricts IP communications. The detection of the malicious condition could be based on data in wireless device and or network . In some examples the detection is based on whether an amount of IP failures during a time period exceeds a threshold. In other examples the detection is based on the ability of detection system to effectively interact with micro processing circuitry and operating software possibly using API . In other examples the detection is based on an instruction from wireless communication network .

In response to detecting the malicious condition electronic detection system generates and transfers a circuit transfer signal to switching circuitry . In response to the circuit transfer signal switching circuitry physically de couples micro processing circuitry from user interface and from wireless transceiver . Also in response to the circuit transfer signal switching circuitry physically couples micro processing circuitry to user interface and to wireless transceiver .

In response to the malicious condition and or the circuit transfer signal micro processing circuitry processes operating software to drive user interface to present information to user . Micro processing circuitry also processes operating software to drive wireless transceiver to exchange wireless signals transporting non IP communications with wireless communication network . Non IP communications supports file transfers conferencing messaging gaming and the like. Non IP communications are transported to wireless network using LTE WiFi CDMA GSM UMTS HHSPA EV DO WiMAX or some other wireless communication protocol including combinations thereof.

In some examples micro processing circuitry processes operating software to drive wireless transceiver to exchange wireless signals that indicate the use of non IP communications to wireless communication network . Wireless transceiver typically indicates the use of non IP communications in an overhead location of the wireless protocol. For example wireless transceiver might insert a special using non IP communications code in the overhead portion of the LTE WiFi CDMA GSM UMTS HHSPA EV DO or WiMAX signals. In response to this indication wireless communication network performs reciprocal communication signal processing to handle the non IP communications possibly by using physically separate circuitry and software as described herein for device .

Likewise wireless communication network may direct the use of non IP communications by using an overhead location of the wireless protocol. For example wireless transceiver might receive a special use non IP communications code in the overhead portion of the LTE WiFi CDMA GSM UMTS HHSPA EV DO or WiMAX signals. This reception of the special code from wireless communication network might represent the detection of a malicious condition as described herein.

Micro processor retrieves software from memory and executes software to operate smart phone Likewise micro processor retrieves software from memory and executes software to detect malicious conditions and transfer the operational control of smart phone from motherboard to circuit board . Software includes an operating system drivers applications utilities and the like.

Micro processor provides API to micro processor . Micro processor uses API to detect malicious conditions that trigger the transfer of operational control. Malicious conditions include the loss of effective IP communications or the loss of API effectiveness. In some examples micro processor also uses API to obtain user consent to transfer of operational control. For example micro processor may use API to direct micro processor to drive touch display to display a control transfer prompt and receive a consent touch input.

Micro processor transfers operational control by providing circuit transfer signal to switch . In response to circuit transfer signal switch physically de couples micro processor from touch display RF circuitry and possibly other components. Micro processor also transfers operational control by exchanging display signals with touch display and by exchanging communication signals with RF circuitry in accord with software in its post transfer state.

Micro processor drives RF circuitry to insert a code in the overhead of the wireless protocol to inform wireless network that smart phone is proceeding with non IP communications. Micro processor may drive touch display to obtain user consent for the transfer of control. Micro processor may drive touch display to offer some applications and services to the user. Micro processor may then drive RF circuitry to wirelessly exchange non IP communications with wireless network to support any selected applications or services.

Although switch is shown on mother board on switch could be located on circuit board or elsewhere in smart phone and perform the operations described herein.

In response to detecting the malicious condition micro processor prompts the user to transfer operational control through display signals to display . In response to the prompt the user provides consent through display and display signals . In response to the user consent micro processor transfers circuit transfer signal to switch . In response to circuit transfer signal switch blocks micro processor from driving display or driving RF circuitry . In response to detecting the malicious condition micro processor and the user exchange information and instructions through touch display . Micro processor and wireless network also exchange non IP communications through RF circuitry .

Micro processor retrieves software from memory and executes software to operate smart phone . To operate smart phone micro processor exchanges display signals with touch display through switch . Micro processor also exchanges communication signals with RF circuitry through switch .

Micro processor retrieves software from memory and executes software to detect malicious conditions and transfer the operational control of smart phone from motherboard to circuit board . Micro processor may use API to detect the malicious conditions. In addition switch may provide micro processor with copies of display signals and communications signals and micro processor can process the copies of signals to detect the malicious conditions.

Micro processor transfers operational control by providing circuit transfer signal to switch . In response to circuit transfer signal switch physically de couples display signals from touch display and physically de couples communication signals from RF circuitry . In response to circuit transfer signal switch physically couples display signals with touch display and physically couples communication signals with RF circuitry . Micro processor implements operational control by exchanging display signals with touch display and by exchanging communication signals with RF circuitry in accord with software in its post transfer state.

Micro processor drives RF circuitry to insert a code in the overhead of the wireless protocol to inform wireless network that smart phone is proceeding with non IP communications. Micro processor may drive touch display to obtain user consent for the control transfer. Micro processor may drive touch display to offer some applications and services to the user. Micro processor may then drive RF circuitry to wirelessly exchange non IP communications with wireless network to support any selected applications or services.

Although switch is shown on circuit board on switch could be located on motherboard or elsewhere in smart phone and perform the operations described herein.

In response to detecting a malicious condition micro processor transfers circuit transfer signal to switch . In response to circuit transfer signal switch transfers operational control by de coupling display signals and micro processor from touch display and by coupling display signals and micro processor with touch display . In response to circuit transfer signal switch transfers operational control by de coupling communication signals and micro processor from RF circuitry and by coupling communication signals and micro processor with RF circuitry . In response to detecting the malicious condition micro processor and the user exchange information and instructions through switch touch display . Micro processor and wireless network also exchange non IP communications through switch and RF circuitry .

In the above examples operational control is transferred from an IP based system to a non IP based system responsive to malicious conditions. In a reciprocal manner operational control could be returned to the IP based system responsive to the return of normal conditions. In the above examples the memories each comprise one or more non transitory storage media such as a disk drive flash drive data storage circuitry or some other memory apparatus. The software comprises computer programs firmware or some other form of machine readable processing instructions. When executed by the micro processing circuitry the software directs the micro processing circuitry to operate as described herein.

The above description and associated figures teach the best mode of the invention. The following claims specify the scope of the invention. Note that some aspects of the best mode may not fall within the scope of the invention as specified by the claims. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the features described above can be combined in various ways to form multiple variations of the invention. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described above but only by the following claims and their equivalents.

