---

title: Apparatus for health correlation assessment
abstract: An apparatus, system and method for performing a health correlation assessment based upon results an eye contrast sensitivity measurement test of a person. The health correlation assessment yields a predictive and probabilistic measure of the likelihood of the person appropriately assigned to a particular clinical health classification. Such an eye contrast sensitivity measurement can be used to identify people who are likely to be within a pre-Alzheimer's disease state or within Alzheimer's disease state of health and identify those who should seek further clinical and/or other types of testing to ascertain their actual health status and to determine an appropriate course of medical treatment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09060728&OS=09060728&RS=09060728
owner: WELCH ALLYN, INC.
number: 09060728
owner_city: Skaneateles Falls
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120914
---
This document is a U.S. non provisional utility patent application that claims priority and benefit to U.S. non provisional patent application Ser. No. 12 794 053 and Ser. No. 12 793 989 which were both filed on Jun. 4 2010 and are entitled Diagnosis of Optically Identifiable Ophthalmic Conditions . Both of the aforementioned patent applications are continuation patent applications of and claim priority and benefit to U.S. non provisional utility patent application Ser. No. 12 505 193 that was filed on Jul. 17 2009 entitled Apparatus and Method for Diagnosis of Optically Identifiable Ophthalmic Conditions and that has issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 075 136 and which is a continuation patent application of and claims priority and benefit to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 224 774 that was filed on Sep. 13 2005 and that has issued U.S. Pat. No. 7 575 321 which is a continuation in part application of and claims the priority and benefit to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 697 454 that was filed Oct. 30 2003 and that has issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 708 403. Priority is claimed to all of the aforementioned patent applications which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This document further claims priority and benefit to U.S. non provisional utility patent application Ser. No. 12 430 202 filed on Apr. 27 2009 that is entitled Apparatus and Method for Diagnosis of Optically Identifiable Ophthalmic Conditions which claims priority and benefit to U.S. provisional utility patent application Ser. No. 61 047 935 that was filed on Apr. 25 2008. Priority is claimed to all of the aforementioned patent applications which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This document further claims priority and benefit to U.S. provisional utility patent application Ser. No. 61 700 782 Confirmation No. 7817 filed on Sep. 13 2012 that is entitled Apparatus for Health Correlation Assessment and which is also incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The subject matter of this invention includes the processing of data obtained from a joint research agreement between the Assignee of the present application and Andrew Saykin of Indiana University Center for Neuroimaging Dept. of Radiology. Indiana University School of Medicine 959 W. Walnut St. R2EH24 Indianapolis. Ind. and Laura Flashman Dartmouth College Dept. of Psychiatry Dartmouth College Medical School Lebanon N.H.

People residing within certain health classifications such as those people afflicted with Alzheimer s disease require a substantial amount of costly medical and non medical care during the period of time in which they are afflicted with such a debilitating disease. The amount of required care typically escalates as the disease progresses. Also as the disease progresses it becomes more likely that the disease will facilitate but not necessarily cause pre mature death of the afflicted person.

Some health care professionals believe that early detection and treatment of Alzheimer s disease could eventually slow progression of the disease reduce the amount and cost of long term care required to be provided to such a person and in some circumstances enable a person to delay and or even avoid the most severe stages of the disease prior to the eventual death of that person. Technology that can provide early detection of Alzheimer s disease at a cost that is substantially less than the cost of existing methods of detection is needed. Such technology could reduce the massive projected costs of caring for future Alzheimer s patients.

The discussion above is merely provided for general background information and is not intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The invention relates to an apparatus system and method for performing a health correlation assessment based upon results an eye contrast sensitivity measurement test of a person. The health correlation assessment provides information conveying a relative probability likelihood of the person being appropriately assigned into a particular clinical health classification based upon some standard of clinical testing. In some embodiments the health correlation assessment is quantitative and provides a set of one or more numerical probabilities as a predictive estimate of the likelihood of the person being appropriately assigned into a particular clinical health classification.

Such an eye contrast sensitivity measurement can be used to identify predict those people who are more likely to be appropriately classified within a pre clinical Alzheimer s disease state e.g. cognitive complaint and mild cognitive complaint or within Alzheimer s disease state of health e.g. mild moderate and severe and who should seek further clinical testing to ascertain their actual clinical health status and to determine a course of treatment and to track a rate of progression of the disease.

This brief description of the invention is intended only to provide a brief overview of subject matter disclosed herein according to one or more illustrative embodiments and does not serve as a guide to interpreting the claims or to define or limit the scope of the invention which is defined only by the appended claims.

The results of each contrast sensitivity test CST eye examination are stored into an output file within non volatile memory storage such as a disk storage device residing within the FDT device . The content of the file can be stored into various file formats including such as .FDT .PDF or .XML file formats.

In accordance with the invention the output file can be further communicated copied to a location that is outside of the FDT device . Such communication can be performed via a communication path to a network such as the internet and or via a communication path to web accessible sites located on the internet including a health correlation assessment service HCAS site . The FDT device can also have a communication path to another computer via a direct connection or via a network including such as the internet. The computer can act as an intermediary for access to the HCAS via communication links to the internet. The FDT device can also communicate the output file via a portable memory device media such as via a compact disc or a universal serial bus USB compatible memory device to another computer .

Alternately in some embodiments the HCAS and the computer can be incorporated within the FDT device having access to the output file that is stored local to the FDT device . In other embodiments the HCAS executes on the computer which has access to a copy of the output file

During a contrast sensitivity examination test the FDT device projects contrast patterns at locations within the selected 55 zones of the viewer s field of view. The viewer responds by pressing a button in communication with the FDT device when a contrast pattern is recognized.

Upon completion of a contrast sensitivity test the FDT device outputs test results into an output file. The output file includes a set of information quantifying the test performance of the viewer. The test results include a plurality of individual parameters. Some of these parameters measure test performance in association with a particular zone while other parameters measure performance in association with a set of more than one zone or in association with the contrast sensitivity test as a whole. In some embodiments the output file may also include other information including personal attributes including such as the name gender and date of birth of the viewer.

Conversely the first listed parameter Age is a personal attribute that is provided by the subject as part of performance of the contrast sensitivity test procedure and is not itself a contrast sensitivity measurement. The LeftDurationTime and RightDurationTime values measure time required to complete the contrast sensitivity test for each of the left and right eyes. The MDLeftEye and MDRightEye are mathematical representations mean deviation for contrast sensitivity measurements of each of the left and right eyes. The PSDLeftEye and PSDRightEye are mathematical representations pattern standard deviation for contrast sensitivity measurements of each of the left and right eyes.

Embodiments of health correlation assessment procedures HCAP are designed to input and process some or all of the 31 listed CST output file parameter values and to output a health correlation assessment of the subject for which the CST parameters were measured. Other CST parameters can be created and defined based upon information obtained from the results of the contrast sensitivity test See 

As shown results of a contrast sensitivity test are stored as data for a subject into a contrast sensitivity test CST result output file . A health correlation assessment procedure HCAP exercises a health correlation assessment procedure predictive algorithm HCAPPA which incorporates coefficient values. The HCAP inputs and processes the content of the output file via a data input component and outputs one or more probabilistic health classification s via a data output component. The HCAPPA determines a correlation based upon a correlation model between the information content of the CST result output file and one or more probabilistic health classification s .

The HCAPPA coefficient values a1 b1 a2 b2 a3 and b3 are incorporated into mathematical expressions See equations 1 7 of . The equations and coefficient values incorporated into those equations quantify a correlation between a set of one or more particular CST parameter values and a probabilistic health classification s being a predictive probability of appropriate assignment of each subject receiving the one or more particular CST parameter values from results of a CST to one or more particular clinical health classifications.

In a first embodiment of these coefficients are employed to compute a probabilistic health classification based upon a single contrast sensitivity test CST measurement parameter. In the embodiment of other coefficients are employed to compute a probabilistic health classification based upon multiple contrast sensitivity test CST measurement parameters. These HCAPPA coefficients and their values are numerical values and are not the same and should not be confused with contrast sensitivity test CST parameters which are each measurements of eye contrast sensitivity.

In some embodiments the probabilistic health classification s include at least one numerical probability of the subject s being appropriately classified into one or more health classifications based upon a correlation model. See equations 0 through 7 of as an one example of an embodiment of a correlation model that is expressed via mathematical equations. This mathematical correlation model correlates at least a portion of the contrast sensitivity test result data for a subject with a probability of that subject being appropriately assigned into one or more clinical health classifications in accordance with clinical criteria. In some embodiments this mathematical correlation model is based upon a repository of information including results of a clinical evaluation for each of the subjects and including contrast sensitivity test result data for those subjects.

In some embodiments the data input component opens and processes parses the information content of the CST output file in accordance with various file formats including such as .FDT .PDF or .XML file formats. The content of the CST output file is parsed to identify each CST parameter value and personal attribute value residing therein for input into the HCAP predictive algorithm HCAPPA . For example a CST output file from the Zeiss manufactured FDT device provides CST related measurement information for the test taking subject for each eye of the subject and for each retinal zone of each eye of the subject. This output file basis includes a measured contrast sensitivity threshold value a total deviation value and a pattern deviation value expressed in decibels dB for each of the 55 retinal zones See of each eye of the test taking subject as measured from within a contrast sensitivity test CST . This output file can further include some personal attribute information of the test taking subject such as test subject name age and gender.

In some embodiments the data input component receives CST parameter values and or other personal attribute values from other sources such as via another data file or via a communications channel with other CST related software and or via a user interface with a user of the apparatus. For example the HCAP data input component may input subject age data from within the output file but further input ethnicity or family history data associated with a subject from sources outside of the CST output file such as via prompting and data entry of a user of the computer or the FDT device .

In some embodiments the data output component outputs and represents probabilistic health classification s quantitatively. For example theses probabilistic health classification s can be expressed as Alzheimer s Disease 55 Normal Health 45 . In some embodiments probabilistic health classification s are output and expressed qualitatively. For example theses probabilistic health classification s can be expressed as Alzheimer s Disease appears More Probable than Normal Health and or Further clinical testing for Alzheimer s Disease is advised .

Note that in some circumstances non Alzheimer s disease related health information may be accessible to the HCAP and output via the data output component in combination with probabilistic health classification s . For example the Zeiss FDT device output file provides information regarding a Glaucoma Hemi field Test GHT . The GHT is an indicator of a presence of Glaucoma. The Zeiss FDT output file indicates whether GHT is Within normal limits or is not within normal limits. Such GHT related information indicates a relative qualitative probability of the test subject having Glaucoma in at least one eye. This GHT is a health classification assessment that is separate from any Alzheimer s Disease related probabilistic classification that may be provided by the HCAP .

Note that further clinical testing for glaucoma e.g. visual field exam intra ocular pressure and cup disc ratio is typically much less expensive that for Alzheimer s Disease e.g. a battery of cognitive tests MRI and or PET scan . In circumstances where health classification assessment predicts a relative probability of the presence of both Glaucoma and Alzheimer s disease it may be more cost effective to perform clinical tests for Glaucoma prior to possible tests for Alzheimer s Disease.

Like for Glaucoma in some embodiments the HCAP will further provide information relating to a relative probability of the test subject being appropriately assigned to one or more than one non Alzheimer s disease related health classifications including for example at least one of glaucoma Parkinson s disease Multiple Sclerosis and head trauma.

In some embodiments HCAP software is stored as a computer program onto portable media such as a compact disc or universal serial bus USB memory storage device. In some embodiments the HCAP software interoperates with an operating system such as for example Microsoft Windows or LINIX operating systems to access contrast sensitivity test and other personal attribute data of subjects to be health correlation assessed to interact with a health correlation assessment service HCAS via network communication to access versions of parameters and or algorithms for the assessment and to interact with a user via a user interface.

In one embodiment the HCAP software is configured to inter operate with an operating system such as for example a Microsoft Version 7 operating system via its application programming interface. The HCAP software directs operations of a central processing unit CPU that is accessible via a system bus residing within the architecture of the host computer . User interface hardware is available for the HCAP software to direct interaction with a user and or administrator of the host computer.

Alternatively the HCAP software is programmed to interoperate with other operating systems and or computing platforms such as for example to interoperate with variants of UNIX such as Linux or onto other Microsoft supplied operating systems various IBM real time or other operating systems. Preferably the operating system is designed to manage physical memory as virtual memory within which the HCAP software resides.

Optionally the host computer operates and interfaces with a computer network via input output and communication device hardware . The network can be implemented as a local or wide area network to enable access to contrast sensitivity result output files from a variety of locations that are remote to the host computer .

In some embodiments the HCAP operates as part of a health correlation assessment service HCAS which is implemented as a network accessible web site via a private or public computer network such as the Internet. In some embodiments the method apparatus or system of the invention spans across state or national boundaries and may interoperate with a network that spans across state or national boundaries. For example the host computer can be located in the Canada while contrast sensitivity result output file data is accessed from locations within the United States and or Canada. The HCAP software can be stored onto portable media such as for example a compact disc or a universal serial bus compatible memory device. In some embodiments the host computer is located within the FDT contrast sensitivity device or within computer .

In one embodiment this coefficient generator processes the sample data in accordance with the correlation model of and with equations 0 through 3 of and outputs HCAP algorithm coefficients a1 b1 a2 b2 a3 and b3 for incorporation into equations 4 through 7 of . The equations and the variables and coefficients incorporated into these equations quantify a statistical correlation between a selected CST parameter value See and a probability of appropriate assignment of each subject receiving the CST parameter value to a particular clinical Alzheimer s related disease health classification.

Note that as referred to herein a Alzheimer s related disease health classification includes pre clinical stages of Alzheimer s disease such as cognitive complaint s CC and clinical stages of the disease such as mild cognitive impairment MCI . The Alzheimer s Disease classification itself includes mild moderate and severe sub classifications of the Alzheimer s Disease in accordance with applicable standards associated with the National Institute on Aging.

The health correlation assessment procedure predictive algorithm HCAPPA coefficient generator inputs clinical health classification sample data contrast sensitivity test result sample data and optionally inputs personal attribute sample data associated with each of a plurality of CST performing subjects from the sample data repository . The coefficients are determined so that the equations 0 through 4 incorporating these coefficients define a mathematical probability function that best fits with the sample data as plotted. Within these equations 0 through 4 of the variable x represents contrast sensitivity test CST values of one CST parameter. In other embodiments an alternate correlation model inputs one or more values of a personal attribute and or inputs other CST parameter values that can be incorporated and designed into variations of equations like that of

Referring back to the HCAP executes within the virtual memory address space of the host computer where ever the host computer may reside. The HCAP inputs and processes information from a contrast sensitivity test result output file and outputs a probabilistic health classification for the subject viewer of the contrast sensitivity test. The probabilistic health classification is stored into a file which can be displayed onto a user interface of the host computer and or displayed onto a user interface of another computer such as computer for example via communication of the probabilistic health classification to the another computer. In some embodiments the another computer can be embedded or directly connected to the FDT device itself .

The HCAP executes an embodiment of a health correlation assessment procedure predictive algorithm HCAPPA . In some embodiments the HCAPPA is selectable from a plurality of different HCAPPA algorithms via a command directive from within a configuration file or via a user interface by a user.

The scope of the invention described herein is not intended to be limited to any one algorithm or set of algorithms and or to any set of procedures variables and coefficients that are incorporated into an algorithm. Nor is the invention intended to be limited to each variable being defined to equal any particular CST parameter or combination of one or more CST parameters and or personal attributes.

What is intended to be within the scope of the invention is that the health correlation assessment procedure HCAP processes at least one CST parameter value of any type or of any combination of types to provide a set of one or more probabilistic health classifications in response to the processed at least one CST parameter value. Optionally the at least one CST parameter can be combined with other non CST information represented as non CST parameters such as for example one or more attributes age gender ethnicity family history work history genetic or other types of biomarkers of any type or of any combination of types associated with the CST test taking subject to provide the one or more probabilistic health classifications providing at least a minimum desired utility and accuracy of prediction.

The probabilistic health classifications provide a relative probability prospect of the first subject being appropriately assigned into at least one Alzheimer s disease related clinical health classification or at least one pre clinical Alzheimer s disease classification. The relative probability can be expressed in a quantitative or qualitative manner to users of the health correlation assessment procedure HCAP and of the health correlation assessment system HCAS . The relative probability or prospect provided by the probabilistic health classification is designed to provide information that reduces uncertainty regarding an appropriate clinical health classification to which the CST taking subject should be assigned. This probabilistic health classification information is provided in a manner that is separate from other information that could be acquired by clinical testing but where such other information at a typically acquired at a much higher cost to the CST test taking subject.

In other embodiments other algorithms can be designed to process a variety of one or more CST parameters in various combinations and optionally in combination with one or more non CST parameters such as personal attributes. Each CST parameter and personal attribute can be represented by one variable x1 x2 . . . within an algorithm or CST parameters and or personal attribute values can be combined mathematically to define one variable x1 x2 . . . within the algorithm. As the amount of Alzheimer s Disease related clinical data grows it would be expected that specific algorithms would evolve to better exploit or attempt to exploit a repository of Alzheimer s Disease related data of increasing size. It is foreseeable that many different types of algorithms can be employed with varying accuracy and effectiveness.

In one embodiment the HCAPPA selects and inputs one or more contrast sensitivity test CST parameters also referred to herein as CST measurements and outputs and a set of probabilistic health classifications for the subject performing the contrast sensitivity test. For example the HCAPPA inputs a RightDurationTime CST parameter See and outputs a set of probabilistic health classifications for the subject performing the contrast sensitivity test based upon a quantified correlation between a contrast sensitivity test result value for the RightDurationTime parameter and clinical health classifications of sample subjects who also have known associated RightDurationTime CST parameter measurement values.

The RightDurationTime is defined as the time required for the subject to complete an entire contrast sensitivity test of the right eye. The amount of time required to complete an entire contrast sensitivity test is variable for each test subject and each eye. The right eye is typically the first eye to be tested while the left eye is typically the second and last eye of the subject to be tested within the contrast sensitivity test.

Aside from the selection of a CST parameter the design of the HCAPPA can vary with respect to a set of one or more probabilistic health classification s for which to predict. In one embodiment the probabilistic health classification s include a first classification of Normal Health and a second classification of Cognitive Complaint third classification of Mild Cognitive Impairment and a fourth classification of Alzheimer s Disease.

In one embodiment the HCAPPA outputs a probability of the subject s being appropriately classified into each of these 4 health classifications based upon the value of the RightDurationTime contrast sensitivity CS measurement parameter. In other embodiments the HCAA outputs a probabilistic health classification based upon another set of one or more contrast sensitivity test CST measurements.

As an example in one embodiment the subject may receive a probabilistic health classification including the following set of probabilities 10 of being Normal Health 20 of being Cognitive Complaint 40 of being Mild Cognitive Impairment and 30 of being Alzheimer s disease. Alternatively in another embodiment the same probabilistic health classification can be represented by the above listed probabilities as 10 of being Normal Health and 90 of being of Non Normal Health.

Appropriate assignment of a subject into a clinical health classification depends upon other information indicia associated with the subject that is obtained from sources other than from an eye contrast sensitivity examination. This other information is obtained from clinical testing. Clinical testing involves performance of various clinical measurements and tests including for example a beta amyloid plaque deposit measurement neurofibrillary tangle measurement a cortex thickness measurement volume and density of the hippocampus and or one or more cognitive tests performed upon the subject.

These clinical measurements and tests are performed in accordance with applicable standards and the results of which are interpreted by Alzheimer s disease and or related disease specialists to decide appropriate placement of a subject into a particular clinical health classification. Such appropriate placement is referred to herein as an actual health classification as opposed to a predicted health classification which results from exercise of the health correlation assessment algorithm HCAA alone.

The beta amyloid plaque deposit and neurofibrillary tangle measurement can be determined via employment of a positron emission tomography PET scan using Pittsburgh Compound B PiB as a fluorescent trace substance. The cortex thickness measurement and volume and density of the hippocampus can be performed via an MRI scan. Cognitive tests can include the Mini Mental State Examination MMSE and what is known as an MMSC cognitive test.

A combination of the above sources of other information is interpreted by the specialist s to determine whether a subject is appropriately classified into one of a set of defined health classifications. For example a first set of health classifications includes Normal Health Cognitive Complaint Mild Cognitive Impairment and Alzheimer s disease health classifications.

In yet another embodiment the probabilistic health classifications include only normal health and non normal health. In this embodiment subjects that would otherwise be classified as Cognitive Complaint or Mild Cognitive Impairment or as having Alzheimer s Disease would instead be classified as being of Non Normal Health.

As referred to herein Normal Health indicates the absence of clinical evidence for Alzheimer s disease and Mild Cognitive Impairment and Cognitive Complaint s . However a subject referred to herein as being appropriately classified as having Normal Health may be possibly afflicted with other non Alzheimer s disease related ailments such as Hepatitis C or a broken bone for example. However there is no known strong correlation between a contrast sensitivity examination and Hepatitis C or a broken bone within the subject and such non Alzheimer s disease related ailments are ignored within the particular disclosed embodiments of the correlation model.

In another embodiment of the HCAPPA the set of probabilistic health classifications exclude Cognitive Complaint and include Normal Health Mild Cognitive Impairment and Alzheimer s disease. In this embodiment subjects that would otherwise be classified as Cognitive Complaint would be instead classified as being of Normal Health. Mild Cognitive Impairment or Alzheimer s Disease.

In accordance with this correlation model the above 4 probabilities P1 P2 P3 and P4 are each a function of a selected CST parameter value represented by the variable x . Equation 0 indicates that P1 P2 P3 P4 1 meaning that for given value of x the 4 probabilities sum to the value 1 and there is no overlap between the probabilities associated with each of the 4 health classifications. Each probability represents a predictive likelihood that a subject viewer receiving a CST parameter value x would be appropriately assigned to a particular health classification based upon clinical test and measurements performed separately from the contrast sensitivity test CST .

In accordance with this correlation model a subject viewer can only be appropriately assigned to one health classification of the set consisting of Normal Health Cognitive Complaint Mild Cognitive Impairment and Alzheimer s Disease. A health care practitioner may advise that the subject should seek clinical testing to verify that the subject should or should not be assigned to the classification in which the subject receives the highest predictive probability from the HCAP. However the subject may also have other smaller and predictive probabilities of being appropriately assigned to one or more other health classifications within this probabilistic set for which clinical testing may also be advisable.

Equation 1 indicates that the logarithm of the ratio of P2 x divided by P1 x which is equivalent to the logarithm of P2 x minus the logarithm of P1 x is expressed as a linear function. This linear function is defined as ax b . Notice that within this correlation model P1 x and P2 x are not limited to being linear functions and are free to be non linear functions to better fit contrast sensitivity data. However this model does require that the difference in the logarithm of P1 x and logarithm of P2 x be expressed as a linear function.

Equation 2 indicates that the logarithm of the ratio of P3 x divided by P1 x which is equivalent to the logarithm of P3 x minus the logarithm of P1 x is expressed as a linear function. This linear function is defined as ax b . Notice that within this correlation model P1 x and P3 x are not limited to being linear functions and are free to be non linear functions to better fit contrast sensitivity data. However this model does require that the difference in the logarithm of P1 x and logarithm of P3 x be expressed as a linear function.

Equation 3 indicates that the logarithm of the ratio of P4 x divided by P1 x which is equivalent to the logarithm of P4 x minus the logarithm of P1 x is expressed as a linear function. This linear function is defined as ax b . Notice that within this correlation model P1 x and P4 x are not limited to being linear functions and are free to be non linear functions to better fit contrast sensitivity data. However this model does require that the difference in the logarithm of P1 x and logarithm of P4 x be expressed as a linear function.

In some embodiments the coefficients a1 b1 a2 b2 a3 and b3 are computed using a TICAP data fit algorithm ITCAPDFA selected as the Newton Raphson algorithm 1 by fitting the above defined correlation model P1 x through P4 x probability equations to the contrast sensitivity data. The CST x values are plotted with respect to a first probability P axis and with respect to a second x value axis where the first axis and second axis are orthogonal to each other. CST parameter x values that are known to be associated with subjects known to be clinically assigned to a particular health classification are plotted to have a probability of 1 of being associated with a subject viewer assigned to that particular health classification and other x values for that CST parameter are plotted to have an associated probability of 0 for being associated with a subject that is clinically assigned to that particular health classification.

For example CST parameter x values that are known to be associated with subjects known to be clinically diagnosed as having Alzheimer s disease are assigned a probability of 1 for being associated with a subject that is clinically diagnosed as having Alzheimer s disease while all other x values for that CST parameter are plotted to have an associated probability of 0 for being associated with a subject that is clinically diagnosed as having Alzheimer s disease.

In one embodiment an implementation of such a best fit algorithm can be performed by a Matlab function called mnrfit to estimate the values of the coefficients. The mnrfit function iteratively determines the coefficients a1 b1 a2 b2 a3 and b3 that best fit a set of contrast sensitivity data in combination with actual clinical health classification information of each subject associated with the contrast sensitivity data.

For example hypothetically if subject number 0234 was clinically diagnosed with Alzheimer s disease and has an associated RightDurationTime CST parameter value of 350 seconds then the HCAPPA coefficient generator via the HCAP Data Fit algorithm HCAPDFA factors this unit of data along with other units of sample data to determine the values of the coefficients a1 b1 a2 b2 a3 and b3 that best fit the combination of both the correlation model defined with equations P1 x P2 x P3 x and P4 x and available contrast sensitivity test result data.

Once these HCAPPA coefficients are determined the HCAPPA and the coefficients incorporated into the HCAPPA are employed to process the CST output file of a new subject viewer not having any known associated clinical health classification. The HCAPPA outputs a set of probabilistic health classifications which predict what clinical health classification s the subject viewer would likely be appropriately assigned to if clinically evaluated.

For example a new subject would have no known prior testing with respect to Alzheimer s disease AD Mild Cognitive Impairment MCI or Cognitive Complaint CC but would have associated contrast sensitivity CS test result data. From this CS test data a set of probabilistic health classifications can be determined for that new subject with respect to Normal Health Alzheimer s disease Mild Cognitive Impairment or Cognitive Complaint based upon a correlation model as described herein.

Each of the equations 4 through 7 operate as a portion of the health correlation assessment procedure predictive algorithm HCAPPA . Equation 4 determines the probability of appropriately classifying a subject as having clinical Normal Health NH based upon the contrast sensitivity test result data for that subject. Equation 5 determines the probability of appropriately classifying a subject as having clinical Cognitive Complaint s based upon the contrast sensitivity test result data for that subject. Equation 6 determines the probability of appropriately classifying a subject as having clinical Mild Cognitive Impairment MCI based upon the contrast sensitivity test result data for that subject. Equation 7 determines the probability of appropriately classifying a subject as having clinical Alzheimer s Disease based upon the contrast sensitivity test result data for that subject.

In response to input and processing of data the HCAP employing a selected predictive algorithm HCAPPA generates outputs a set of one or more probabilistic health classifications in accordance with equations 4 through 7 of . As shown 4 probabilistic health classifications are listed for each subject. For a first subject Number 0395012 a set of probabilistic health classifications include Alzheimer s Disease AD having a probability equal to 53 mild cognitive impairment MCI equal to 28 cognitive complaint s 15 and normal health 4 .

Note that these probabilistic health classifications are not actual health classifications listed in . For example hypothetically if first subject Number 0395012 received clinical testing and evaluation this first subject may be actually and clinically classified as MCI despite the HCAP predicting that AD is most probable. However use of another algorithm by the HCAP or use of the same algorithm with other coefficients that are generated based upon a larger and or more diverse repository of sample data may yield a more accurate prediction that MCI is the most likely appropriate health classification.

The sample data includes 29 sample subjects clinically classified being of Normal Health NH 18 sample subjects classified as having Cognitive Complaints CC 27 sample subjects classified as having mild cognitive impairment MCI and 9 sample subjects classified as having Alzheimer s disease. This sample data is processed to determine the health classification assessment algorithm HCAA parameters a1 b1 a2 b2 a3 b3 a4 and b4 using a best fit algorithm employing the equations 0 through 3 of .

As shown a value of the Right Duration Time measurement of subjects having Normal Health NH have a range between 291 333 seconds and have a mean of approximately 312 seconds. The RightDurationTime measurement for subjects having cognitive complaints CC have a range between 297 346 seconds and have a mean of approximately 321.5 seconds. The RightDurationTime measurement for subjects having mild cognitive impairment MCI have a range between 303 355 seconds and have a mean of approximately 329 seconds. The RightDurationTime measurement for subjects having Alzheimer s disease have a range between 315 384 seconds and have a mean of approximately 349.5 for subjects having Alzheimer s disease.

A shown the sample subjects that are clinically classified as actually having Alzheimer s Disease AD typically require more RightDurationTime on average than that of subjects that are classified as actually having Mild Cognitive Impairment MCI who typically require more RightDurationTime on average than subjects that are clinically classified as actually having Cognitive Complaint s who typically require more RightDurationTime on average than subjects that are clinically classified as actually having Normal Health NH .

Despite the above observation there is much overlap and hence ambiguity when interpreting this data with the naked eye. A new subject requiring a RightDurationTime of between 300 and 340 seconds falls within at least 3 different health classifications. Also for example a hypothetical subject requiring a RightDurationTime value of 325 seconds falls within the range of sample data for all 4 clinical health classifications. Many other hypothetical RightDurationTime values tall within the range of at least 2 clinical health classifications. As a result despite any perceived visual correlation quantifying an accurate correlation between the RightDurationTime and appropriate assignment to one of 4 clinical health classifications is not clear from observation alone with respect to this sample data.

The sample data includes 29 sample subjects clinically classified being of Normal Health NH 18 sample subjects classified as having Cognitive Complaints CC 27 sample subjects classified as having mild cognitive impairment MCI and 9 sample subjects classified as having Alzheimer s disease. This sample data is processed to determine the health classification assessment algorithm HCAA parameters a1 b1 a2 b2 a3 and b3 using a best fit algorithm employing the equations 0 through 3 of .

As shown a value of the PeripheryRightEye measurement of subjects having Normal Health NH have a range between 19.28 28.73 dB and have a mean of approximately 24.00. The PeripheryRightEye measurement for subjects having cognitive complaints CC have a range between 18.21 30.23 dB and have a mean of approximately 24.22. The PeripheryRightEye measurement for subjects having mild cognitive impairment MCI have a range between 12.86 28.31 dB and have a mean of approximately 20.59 dB. The PeripheryRightEye measurement for subjects having Alzheimer s disease have a range between 11.55 23.31 and have a mean of approximately 17.43 dB for subjects having Alzheimer s disease.

A shown the sample subjects that are clinically classified as actually having Alzheimer s Disease AD have a lower average PeripheryRightEye CST parameter value than that of subjects that are classified as actually having Mild Cognitive Impairment MCI who have a lower average PeripheryRightEye CST parameter value than sample subjects that are clinically classified as actually having Cognitive Complaint s who have approximately the same average PeripheryRightEye CST parameter as sample subjects that are clinically classified as actually having Normal Health NH .

Despite the above observations there is much overlap and uncertainty when visually interpreting this sample data in relation with the 4 clinical health classifications. For example a new subject having a PeripheryRightEye value of between 18.3 and 23.3 dB falls within 3 different health classifications within the sample data. Also for example a hypothetical subject having a PeripheryRightEye value of 21 dB falls within all 4 clinical health classifications. Many other hypothetical PeripheryRightEye values fall within the range of at least 2 clinical health classifications. As a result despite any perceived visual correlation accurately quantifying a correlation between any PeripheryRightEye contrast sensitivity measurement from this sample data and appropriate assignment to one of 4 clinical health classifications is not clear from visual observation alone.

The sample data includes 29 sample subjects clinically classified being of Normal Health NH 18 sample subjects classified as having Cognitive Complaints CC 27 sample subjects classified as having mild cognitive impairment MCI and 9 sample subjects classified as having Alzheimer s disease. This sample data is processed to determine the health classification assessment algorithm HCAA parameters a1 b1 a2 b2 a3 and b3 using a best fit algorithm employing the equations 0 through 3 of .

As shown a value of the age of subjects having Normal Health NH have a range between 63 86 years of age and have a mean of approximately 74.5 years. The age for subjects having cognitive complaints CC have a range between 62 83 years of age and have a mean of approximately 72.5 years. The age for subjects having mild cognitive impairment MCI have a range between 61 88 years and have a mean of approximately 74.5 years. The age for subjects having Alzheimer s disease have a range between 60 83 years of age and have a mean of approximately 71.5 years for subjects having Alzheimer s disease.

As shown the sample subjects that are clinically classified as actually having Alzheimer s Disease AD have an age range that is approximate to that of subjects that are classified as actually having Mild Cognitive Impairment MCI who have an age range that is approximate to that of subjects that are clinically classified as actually having Cognitive Complaint s who have an age range that is approximate to that of average sample subjects that are clinically classified as actually having Normal Health NH . As a result there does not appear to be much of any visual correlation between the age of the CST performing subject and their appropriate assignment to one of 4 clinical health classifications.

However a combining and plotting values one or more individual a CST parameters with the age value for each of the CST performing subjects may reveal a mathematical significant correlation between the combination of CST parameters and age for each particular subject that can be quantified and exploited within an accordingly designed embodiment of a HCAPPA algorithm.

This computed probability is a function of a RightDurationTime value received by a subject and indicated on a horizontal axis of the graph . The error bars vertically spanning across the center line indicate a 95 confidence range for each probability value located along an intersection with the center line . In other words based upon this mathematical model and its assumptions there is 95 confidence that the actual probability for each RightDurationTime CST value indicated along axis falls within the probability range indicated by an upper limit and a lower limit of the error bars vertically spanning across the center line .

The coefficient values for a1 a2 a3 that are computed based upon the above described best fit algorithm and the RightDurationTime sample data are 0.135 0.076 0.050 . The coefficient values for b1 b2 b3 that are computed based upon the above described best fit algorithm and the sample data are 44.330 25.469 17.644 . Incorporating these aforementioned coefficient values into equation 4 of yields the graph of probability P1 shown here.

Graph is of a probability P of a subject viewer being appropriately assigned to a cognitive complaint CC classification having cognitive complaints assessed in accordance with a clinical standard as a function of a RightDurationTime CST parameter value. This graph is computed in accordance with the correlation model equation 5 of and sample data of 83 subjects The center line is a function representing a computed probability indicated on a vertical axis of the graph of a subject appropriately being clinically classified as having Cognitive Complaints.

This computed probability is a function of a RightDurationTime value received by a subject and indicated on a horizontal axis of the graph . The error bars vertically spanning across the center line indicate a 95 confidence range for each probability value located along an intersection with the center line . In other words based upon this mathematical model and its assumptions there is 95 confidence that the actual probability for each RightDurationTime CST value indicated along axis falls within the probability range indicated by an upper limit and a lower limit of the error bars vertically spanning across the center line .

This computed probability is a function of a RightDurationTime value received by a subject and indicated on a horizontal axis of the graph . The error bars vertically spanning across the center line indicate a 95 confidence range for each probability value located along an intersection with the center line . In other words based upon this mathematical model and its assumptions there is 95 confidence that the actual probability for each RightDurationTime CST value indicated along axis falls within the probability range indicated by an upper limit and a lower limit of the error bars vertically spanning across the center line .

Graph is of a probability P of a subject viewer being appropriately assigned to an Alzheimer s Disease AD health classification assigned in accordance with a clinical standard as a function of a RightDurationTime CST parameter value. This graph is computed in accordance with the correlation model equation 7 of and sample data of 83 subjects The center line is a function representing a computed probability indicated on a vertical axis of the graph of a subject appropriately being clinically classified as having Alzheimer s Disease AD .

This computed probability is a function of a RightDurationTime value received by a subject and indicated on a horizontal axis of the graph . The error bars vertically spanning across the center line indicate a 95 confidence range for each probability value located along an intersection with the center line . In other words based upon this mathematical model and its assumptions there is 95 confidence that the actual probability for each RightDurationTime CST value indicated along horizontal axis fills within the probability range indicated by an upper limit and a lower limit of the error bars vertically spanning across the center line .

From this analysis 26 of 29 subjects that are of actual clinical normal health are predicted as having normal health and 7 of 18 subjects actually having clinical cognitive complaints are predicted as having cognitive complaints and 17 of 27 subjects actually having mild cognitive impairment MCI are predicted as having mild cognitive impairment MCI and finally only 1 of 9 sample subjects actually having clinical Alzheimer s Disease AD are predicted as having Alzheimer s Disease AD .

The sensitivity of normal health NH prediction is 26 29 89.6 the sensitivity of the cognitive complaint CC prediction is 0 18 0 the sensitivity of the mild cognitive impairment MCI prediction is 17 27 62.9 the sensitivity of the AD prediction is 1 9 11.1 . Note that the sensitivity of the combination of MCI plus AD is 27 36 75 . The sensitivity of the combination of CC MCI plus AD is 34 54 62.9 .

What the aforementioned sensitivity values indicate is that this particular RightDurationTime single CST parameter correlation model is highly sensitive to subjects having actual normal health but is insensitive to subjects with cognitive complaints CC somewhat sensitive to subjects having actual clinical Mild Cognitive Impairments and much less sensitive to subjects having actual clinical Alzheimcr s disease. However there is substantial sensitivity 75 for the combination of MCI and AD which is arguably a combination of Alzheimer s Disease and pre Alzheimer s Disease health classifications.

It is desired that this correlation model evolve to achieve higher sensitivity for clinically verifiable CC MCI and AD so that fewer subjects in these clinically verifiable categories are not recognized by the HCAPPA. This is desired even if it comes that the cost of lower NH sensitivity given that the cost penalty for not recognizing normal health is advising and performing an unnecessary Alzheimers disease related clinical test. Conversely the cost penalty for not recognizing an Alzheimer s related disease classification can be unnecessary progression of the Alzheimer s disease within early treatment which could be much more costly.

Unlike the first embodiment of the HCAPPA the above 4 probabilities P1 P2 P3 and P4 are each a function of multiple 5 selected CST parameters represented by the variables x1 x2 x3 x4 and x5 . These CST parameters are RightDurationTime x1 PeriCenRatioRightEye x2 SupInfRatioRightEye x3 MacularArcRightEye x4 and SuperiorQuadRatioRightEye x5 .

As shown the PeriCenRatioRightEye CST parameter x2 is a function of the PeripheryRightEye and CentralRightEye CST parameters. The SupInfRatioRightEye x3 CST parameter is a function of the SuperiorRightEye and InferiorRightEye CST parameters. The SuperiorQuadRatioRightEye x5 CST parameter is a function of the SuperiorQuadRightEye1 and the SuperiorQuadRightEye2 CST parameters.

Like the first embodiment of the HCAPPA Equation 0 indicates that P1 P2 P3 P4 1 meaning that for given set of CST parameter values of x1 x2 x3 x4 and x5 the 4 probabilities sum to the value 1 and there is no overlap between the probabilities associated with each of the 4 health classifications. Each probability represents a predictive likelihood that a subject viewer receiving a given set of CST parameter values x1 x2 x3 x4 and x5 would be appropriately assigned to a particular health classification associated with that probability based upon clinical test and measurements performed separately from the contrast sensitivity test CST .

In accordance with this correlation model a subject viewer can be predictably assigned to health classifications of the set consisting of Normal Health Cognitive Complaint. Mild Cognitive Impairment and Alzheimer s Disease. In response to an output of the HCAPPA a health care practitioner may advise that the subject should seek clinical testing to verify that the subject should or should not be assigned to the classification in which the subject receives the highest predictive probability from the HCAP. However the subject may also have other smaller and predictive probabilities of being appropriately assigned to one or more other health classifications within this probabilistic set for which clinical testing may also be advisable.

Equation 11 indicates that the logarithm of the ratio of P2 x1 x2 x3 x4 x5 divided by P1 x1 x2 x3 x4 x5 which is equivalent to the logarithm of P2 x1 x2 x3 x4 x5 minus the logarithm of P1 x1 x2 x3 x4 x5 is expressed as a linear function. This linear function is defined as ax ax ax ax ax b . Notice that within this correlation model P1 x and P2 x are not limited to being linear functions and are free to be non linear functions to better fit contrast sensitivity data. However this model does require that the difference in the logarithm of P1 x and logarithm of P2 x be expressed as a linear function.

Equation 2 indicates that the logarithm of the ratio of P3 x divided by P1 x which is equivalent to the logarithm of P3 x minus the logarithm of P1 x is expressed as a linear function. This linear function is defined as ax ax ax ax ax b Notice that within this correlation model P1 x and P3 x are not limited to being linear functions and are free to be non linear functions to better fit contrast sensitivity data. However this model does require that the difference in the logarithm of P1 x and logarithm of P3 x be expressed as a linear function.

Equation 3 indicates that the logarithm of the ratio of P4 x divided by P1 x which is equivalent to the logarithm of P4 x minus the logarithm of P1 x is expressed as a linear function. This linear function is defined as ax ax ax ax ax b Notice that within this correlation model P1 x and P4 x are not limited to being linear functions and are free to be non linear functions to better fit contrast sensitivity data. However this model does require that the difference in the logarithm of P1 x and logarithm of P4 x be expressed as a linear function.

The coefficients a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a and b b b are computed using Newton Raphson algorithm 1 by fitting the above defined correlation model to the contrast sensitivity data. The CST x x x x x values are virtually plotted within a multidimensional space with respect to a first probability P axis. A set of CST parameter x x x x x values that are known to be associated with a subject known to be clinically assigned to a particular health classification are plotted as having a probability equal to 1 of being associated with a subject viewer assigned to that particular clinical health classification and other sets of x x x x x CST parameter values are virtually plotted to have an associated probability equal to 0 for being associated with a subject that is clinically assigned to that particular health classification.

For example a set of CST parameter x x x x x values that is known to be associated with a subject known to be clinically diagnosed as having Alzheimer s disease are assigned a probability of 1 for being associated with a subject that is clinically diagnosed as having Alzheimer s disease while other sets of x x x x x CST parameter values are virtually plotted to have an associated probability of 0 for being associated with a subject that is clinically diagnosed as having Alzheimer s disease.

In one embodiment an implementation of such a best fit algorithm can be performed by a Matlab function called mnrfit to estimate the values of the coefficients a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a and b b b . The mnrfit function iteratively determines the coefficients that best fit a set of sample contrast sensitivity data in combination with actual clinical health classification information of each subject associated with the contrast sensitivity data.

Once these HCAPPA coefficients are determined the HCAPPA and the coefficients incorporated into the HCAPPA are employed to process the CST output file of a new subject viewer not having any known associated clinical health classification. The HCAPPA outputs a set of probabilistic health classifications which predict what clinical health classification s the subject viewer would likely be appropriately assigned to if clinically evaluated.

For example a new subject would have no known prior testing with respect to Alzheimer s disease AD Mild Cognitive Impairment MCI or Cognitive Complaint CC but would have associated contrast sensitivity CS test result data. From this CS test data a set of probabilistic health classifications can be determined for that new subject with respect to Normal Health Alzheimer s disease Mild Cognitive Impairment or Cognitive Complaint based upon a correlation model as described herein.

Each of the equations 14 through 17 operate as a portion of the health correlation assessment algorithm HCAPPA . Equation 14 determines the probability of appropriately classifying a subject as having clinical Normal Health NH based upon the contrast sensitivity test result data for that subject. Equation 15 determines the probability of appropriately classifying a subject as having clinical Cognitive Complaint s based upon the contrast sensitivity test result data for that subject. Equation 16 determines the probability of appropriately classifying a subject as having clinical Mild Cognitive Impairment MCI based upon the contrast sensitivity test result data for that subject. Equation 17 determines the probability of appropriately classifying a subject as having clinical Alzheimer s Disease based upon the contrast sensitivity test result data for that subject.

From this analysis 24 of 29 subjects that are of actual clinical normal health NH are predicted as having normal health and 4 of 18 subjects actually having clinical cognitive complaints CC are predicted as having cognitive complaints and 18 of 27 subjects actually having mild cognitive impairment MCI are predicted as having mild cognitive impairment MCI and finally only 4 of 9 sample subjects actually having clinical Alzheimer s Disease AD are predicted as having Alzheimer s Disease AD .

The sensitivity of the normal health NH prediction is 24 29 82.7 the sensitivity of the cognitive complaint CC prediction is 4 18 22.2 the sensitivity of MCI is 17 27 66.6 and the sensitivity of Alzheimer s Disease AD prediction is 4 9 55.5 . Importantly the sensitivity of the MCI and AD classifications combined is 75 and the sensitivity of the CC MCI and AD classifications unhealthy classifications combined is 83.3 .

Importantly this multi parameter embodiment provides substantially more sensitivity with respect to Alzheimer s Disease 11.1 55.5 and more sensitivity to the CC MCI and AD classifications non healthy classifications combined 62.9 83.3 .

It is desired that this correlation model evolve to achieve higher sensitivity for CC. MCI and AD so that fewer subjects in these categories are not recognized by the HCAPPA. This is desired even if such improvement in sensitivity comes that the cost of lower specificity of normal health NH given that the cost penalty for not recognizing normal health is advising and performing an unnecessary Alzheimer s disease related clinical test. Conversely the cost penalty for not recognizing an Alzheimer s related disease classification can be unnecessary progression of the Alzheimer s disease without early treatment which could be much more costly in the long term.

The sensitivity of both the single and multi parameter algorithms may further improve with access to more sample data. The sample data includes only 9 of 83 Alzheimer s Disease AD subjects. Access to more clinically identified AD subjects to improve the sensitivity and or specificity either or both of these algorithms.

The subject performs a first contrast sensitivity test CST which indicates normal health and performs a second CST one year later which indicates normal health but that is significantly more likely of being classified as Mild Cognitive Impairment. After the second CST subject elects to receive clinical testing . Subject has an option of permitting a release of the HCS test s and the results of the clinical tests to the health correlation assessment service HCAS .

A subject has an option to perform many test over time. Algorithms can be designed to quantity a chronological trend to measure effectiveness of medical treatment or possible progression of a disease or medical condition for which the CST is sensitive.

The subject performs a first contrast sensitivity test CST which indicates substantial likelihood of Mild Cognitive Impairment and a small likelihood of Alzheimer s disease and elects to receive clinical testing . Clinical tests indicate Alzheimer s disease and subject elects to permit release of the contrast sensitivity tests and the clinical tests to the HCAS .

The subject performs a first contrast sensitivity test CST which indicates small likelihood of Mild Cognitive Impairment and elects to receive clinical testing . Clinical tests indicate normal health and the subject elects to permit release of the contrast sensitivity tests and the clinical tests to the HCAS .

The subject performs a first contrast sensitivity test CST which indicates small likelihood of Mild Cognitive Impairment and elects not to receive clinical testing . There are no clinical tests performed and subject elects to permit release of the contrast sensitivity tests to the HCAS in case further contrast sensitivity testing and or clinical testing is performed sometime in the future.

At the HCAS specialists scrutinize data received for subjects from the CST and clinical testing to decide for inclusion of the data received into the repository of sample data managed within the HCAS . As a result the repository of sample data of the HCAS and associated HCAP data fit algorithms HCAPDFA and HCAP predictive algorithms HCAPPA can be revised and enhanced over time to better exploit a larger and more representative set of sample Alzheimer s disease related data.

This written description uses examples to disclose the invention including the best mode and also to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the invention including making and using any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of the invention is defined by the claims and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal language of the claims.

