---

title: Rare earth magnet and method for producing the same
abstract: A rare earth magnet production method of the present invention includes a placing step of placing a magnet material including a compact or a sintered body of powder particles having a rare earth magnet alloy, and a diffusing material containing a diffusing element to improve coercivity, in a vicinity of each other; and a diffusing step of diffusing the diffusing element into an inside of the magnet material by exposing the magnet material heated to vapor of the diffusing element evaporated from the diffusing material heated; and wherein the diffusing step is a step of heating the diffusing material independently of the magnet material to diffusing material temperature which is different from heating temperature of the magnet material called magnet material temperature.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09514870&OS=09514870&RS=09514870
owner: TOYOTA JIDOSHA KABUSHIKI KAISHA
number: 09514870
owner_city: Toyota
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20120213
---
The present invention relates to a rare earth magnet especially an anisotropic rare earth magnet having good magnetic properties especially coercivity and a method for producing the same.

Rare earth magnets especially permanent magnets typically exemplified by Nd Fe B based magnets exhibit very high magnetic properties. Since use of the rare earth magnets can realize downsizing output power enhancement density enhancement environmental burden reduction and the like of electromagnetic devices and electric motors application of the rare earth magnets is being investigated in a wide range of fields.

However in order to achieve practical application it is requested that good magnetic properties of the rare earth magnets are exhibited stably for a long time even under severe environments. Therefore research and development are actively conducted to improve coercivity which is effective in providing heat resistance demagnetization resistance while maintaining or improving high residual magnetic flux density of the rare earth magnets. One of the most effective methods is to diffuse a diffusing element such as dysprosium Dy and terbium Tb which is a rare earth element having high anisotropic magnetic field Ha into grain boundaries of main phase crystal e.g. NdFeB type crystal and the like. This diffusion treatment allows an improvement in crystal magnetic anisotropy and suppression of generation of starting points of reverse magnetic domains while suppressing replacement of Dy or the like in crystal grains and accordingly allows an improvement in coercivity while suppressing a decrease in residual magnetic flux density.

By the way this diffusion treatment can be performed in a variety of methods. One example of the methods is a powder mixing method in which magnet powder comprising a raw material alloy of a rare earth magnet hereinafter referred to as a rare earth magnet alloy is mixed with diffusing powder containing a diffusing element and a compact of the obtained mixed powder is sintered or the like to perform the aforementioned diffusion treatment. Another example of the methods is a coating method in which diffusing powder or the like is coated on a surface of a magnet material to be subjected to diffusion treatment and then heat treatment is applied to the coated material to perform the diffusion treatment. Furthermore in order to perform efficient diffusion treatment while suppressing the amount of Dy or the like which is a scarce element to be used a vapor method has recently been proposed in which a diffusing element is efficiently diffused into an inside of a magnet material by exposing the magnet material to vapor of the diffusing element. Description of this vapor method is found for example in the following patent documents.

 PTL 2 International Publication No. WO 2007 102391 Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication Nos. 2008 263223 and 2009 124150 

Subject Matters described in all the aforementioned patent literature are basically to perform diffusion treatments by heating a diffusing material serving as a source of vapor of a diffusing element and a magnet material to be subjected to diffusion treatment under the same conditions and efficiency of these diffusion treatments is not always high.

The present invention has been made in view of these circumstances. That is to say it is an object of the present invention to provide a rare earth magnet production method capable of obtaining a rare earth magnet having higher magnetic properties at lower costs by performing efficient and effective diffusion treatment while suppressing the amount of a scarce diffusing element such as Dy to be used unlike in conventional vapor methods and also provides such a rare earth magnet having high magnetic properties.

The present inventors have earnestly studied and made trial and error in order to solve the problem. As a result the present inventors have newly found that when diffusion treatment is performed by the vapor method magnetic properties especially coercivity of a rare earth magnet can be effectively and efficiently improved while suppressing the amount of a scarce diffusing element by individually controlling heating temperature of a magnetic material and a diffusing material. The present inventors have developed this fruit and completed the present invention as described below.

 1 That is to say a method for producing a rare earth magnet according to the present invention comprises a placing step of placing a magnet material including a compact or a sintered body of powder particles having a rare earth magnet alloy and a diffusing material containing a diffusing element to improve coercivity in a vicinity of each other and a diffusing step of diffusing the diffusing element into an inside of the magnet material by exposing the magnet material heated to vapor of the diffusing element evaporated from the diffusing material heated and wherein the diffusing step is a step of heating the diffusing material independently of the magnet material to diffusing material temperature Td which is different from heating temperature of the magnet material called magnet material temperature Tm .

 2 The amount of vapor of a diffusing element largely depends on temperature of a diffusing material a diffusing material temperature . On the other hand diffusion speed of the diffusing element inside a magnet material especially crystal grain boundaries largely depends on temperature of the magnet material magnet material temperature . In the diffusing step of the present invention the diffusing material temperature and the magnet material temperature are separately controlled so as to ensure consistency or cooperation of the diffusion speed inside the magnet material and the amount of vapor of the diffusing element. As a result for example it is possible to suppress the diffusing element from being deposited in an extra amount or concentrated excessively in a vicinity of a surface layer of the magnet material due to an excessively large amount of vapor of the diffusing element relative to diffusion speed inside the magnet material. On the other hand it is also possible to avoid an increase in diffusion treatment time due to an excessively small amount of vapor of the diffusing element relative to diffusion speed inside the magnet material.

According to the method for producing a rare earth magnet of the present invention the diffusing element can thus be sufficiently diffused into an inside of the magnet material in a shorter time without wasting the scarce diffusing element so efficient and effective diffusion treatment can be performed and a rare earth magnet having higher magnetic properties can be obtained at lower costs.

 3 By the way in addition to the aforementioned method efficient and effective diffusion treatment can also be performed by the following method. That is to say the present invention can be a method for producing a rare earth magnet comprising a placing step of placing a magnet material including a compact of powder particles having a rare earth magnet alloy and a diffusing material containing a diffusing element to improve coercivity in a vicinity of each other and a diffusing step of diffusing the diffusing element into an inside of the magnet material by exposing the magnet material heated to vapor of the diffusing element evaporated from the diffusing material heated and wherein the diffusing step is performed during a temperature rising stage or a cooling stage of a sintering step of heating the compact into a sintered body.

Diffusion speed inside the magnet material can vary even during stages of raising maintaining and lowering temperature of a compact to form a sintered body. Especially diffusion speed of the diffusing element increases upon generation of liquid phase inside the magnet material a compact or a sintered body and the diffusion speed also increases as the magnet material temperature rises. Thus diffusion treatment by the vapor method can be efficiently performed by simultaneously performing a diffusing step with a predetermined region of a sintering step in which diffusion speed is high.

However it is assumed that if the diffusing material temperature is excessively high for example a sintering temperature above 1100 deg. C. the amount of vapor of the diffusing element becomes excessively large and an excess of the diffusing element may be deposited on a surface of the magnet material or excessively concentrated. If the diffusing step is simultaneously performed during the temperature rising stage or cooling stage of the sintering step as mentioned above such inconveniences do not occur and efficient and effective diffusion treatment can be performed while effectively using the scarce diffusing element.

 1 The present invention can be grasped not only as the aforementioned production method but also as a rare earth magnet production device suitable for the method. That is to say the present invention can be grasped as a device for producing a rare earth magnet which is characterized by comprising a treatment chamber for performing diffusion treatment or sintering gas pressure control means for controlling gas pressure in the treatment chamber placing means for placing a magnet material comprising a compact or a sintered body of powder particles comprising a rare earth magnet alloy and a diffusing material containing a diffusing element to improve coercivity in a vicinity of each other in the treatment chamber magnet material heating means for heating the magnet material diffusing material heating means for heating the diffusing material magnet material temperature control means for controlling magnet material temperature Tm which is heating temperature of the magnet material heated by the magnet material heating means and diffusing material temperature control means for controlling diffusing material temperature Td which is heating temperature of the diffusing material heated by the diffusing material heating means and by being capable of diffusing the diffusing element into an inside of the magnet material by exposing the magnet material heated to vapor of the diffusing element evaporated from the diffusing material heated.

 2 It is preferred that this device for producing a rare earth magnet further comprises a preparatory chamber communicating with the treatment chamber and capable of storing the diffusing material heating means stopping means capable of arbitrarily stopping communication between the treatment chamber and the preparatory chamber and transfer ring means for transferring the diffusing material heating means between the preliminary chamber and the treatment chamber.

The present invention can be grasped not only as the aforementioned production method but also as a rare earth magnet obtained by the production method. This rare earth magnet includes rare earth magnet raw materials and rare earth magnet members and is not limited in shape. For example the rare earth magnet can be shaped of a block a ring or a thin film. Relating to those having high magnetic properties the rare earth magnet of the present invention is basically an anisotropic rare earth magnet but can be an isotropic rare earth magnet.

Note that the magnet material is a material to be subjected to diffusion treatment and can be a compact comprising a rare earth magnet alloy or a sintered body obtained by sintering the compact. The magnet material can be a processed body having a final product shape or a shape close to the final product shape or a bulk material before processing.

In the rare earth magnet of the present invention the diffusing element has diffused into grain boundaries within an inside of the rare earth magnet owing to the aforementioned diffusion treatment but the degree of diffusion is not limited. It should be noted that though it is more moderate than in a conventional rare earth magnet a concentration gradient of the diffusing element can occur from a surface layer portion to an inside of the magnet and diffusing element rich portions can be generated in the surface layer portion. Moreover the diffusing element can not only undergo surface diffusion or grain boundary diffusion in which the diffusing element diffuses into boundaries or grain boundaries of powder particles or crystal grains but also undergo lattice diffusion in which the diffusing element diffuses into an inside of crystal grains although the amount is small. It should be noted that when simply referred to as grain boundaries or boundaries in the description of the present invention it can include grain boundaries or boundaries of not only powder particles but also crystal grains constituting the powder particles.

 1 The rare earth element R mentioned herein includes scandium Sc yttrium Y and lanthanoid. Lanthanoid includes lanthanum La cerium Ce praseodymium Pr neodymium Md samarium Sm europium Eu gadolinium GO terbium Tb dysprosium Dy holmium Ho erbium Er thulium Tm ytterbium Yb lutetium Lu .

 2 The rare earth magnet alloy mentioned herein comprises a main rare earth element hereinafter referred to as Rm which is at least one of rare earth elements boron B the remainder being a transitional metal element TM mainly Fe and inevitable impurities with or without a reforming element. This Rm comprises at least one of the aforementioned R and especially Nd and or Pr are typically employed as Rm .

The reforming element is at least one of cobalt Co and lanthanum La which improve heat resistance of the rare earth magnet material and gallium Ga niobium Nb aluminum Al silicon Si titanium Ti vanadium V chromium Cr manganese Mn nickel Ni copper Cu germanium Ge zirconium Zr molybdenum Mo indium In tin Sn hafnium Hf tantalum Ta tungsten W and lead Pb which are effective in improving magnetic properties such as coercivity. These reforming elements can be combined arbitrarily. Content of the reforming element is generally very small and for example it is preferred that the content is about 0.01 to 10 by mass.

The inevitable impurities are impurities which are contained originally in the rare earth magnet alloy or mixed in each step and which are difficult to be removed for cost or technical reasons. Examples of such inevitable impurities include oxygen O nitrogen N carbon C hydrogen H calcium Ca sodium Ma potassium K and argon Ar .

It should be noted that the reforming element can not only be contained in powder particles but also be diffused into the magnet material by a variety of methods. Moreover when the reforming element is an alloy having a low melting point for example the reforming element can be diffused in a temperature rising stage of a sintering step for example from 300 to 1100 deg. C. . The aforementioned discussion about the reforming element and inevitable impurities appropriately applies to the diffusing material which serves as a supply source of the diffusing element.

 3 The diffusing material is not limited in composition kind or shape but is suitable for diffusion treatment by a vapor method and contains a diffusing element an element to improve coercivity . Typical examples of the diffusing element include a diffusing rare earth element Rd such as Dy Tb and Ho. It is preferred that the diffusing material comprises a single substance or an alloy of these elements. It should be noted that the diffusing material used in the diffusion step can be of one kind or a plurality of kinds.

 4 A range x to y as used herein includes a lower limit value x and an upper limit value y unless otherwise specified Moreover a range such as a to b can be formed by arbitrarily combining various lower limit values and upper limit values recited herein. Furthermore any given numerical value contained in the ranges recited herein can be used as an upper limit value or a lower limit value for defining a numerical value range.

The present invention will be described in more detail by way of embodiments of the invention. It should be noted that a subject matter discussed in the present description including those of the following embodiments is appropriately applied not only to a production method but also a rare earth magnet according to the present invention. One or more constituent features arbitrarily selected from the constitution described below can be added to the aforementioned constitution of the present invention. Constitution of a production method can be constitution of a rare earth magnet when if is understood as a product by process. Which embodiment is best varies with target application required performance and the like.

The rare earth magnet production method of the present invention comprises a placing step of placing a magnet material to be treated and a diffusing material serving as a source of vapor of a diffusing element in a vicinity of each other and a diffusing step of performing diffusion treatment by exposing the magnet material to the vapor of the diffusing element. Here the diffusing step which is a main characteristic portion of the present invention will be discussed.

 1 According to the diffusion step of the present invention diffusing material temperature Td which is heating temperature of the diffusing material can be set and controlled independently of magnet material temperature Tm which is heating temperature of the magnet material. This allows the magnet material to be heated to Tm at which liquid phase occurs in boundaries or grain boundaries and diffusion speed is high while allowing the diffusing material to be heated to Td at which vapor of the diffusing element is generated in an amount suitable for the diffusion speed. As a result effective diffusion treatment can be achieved in a short time while suppressing the amount of the scarce diffusing element used.

 2 This diffusing step does not have to be performed in a single independent step and at least part of a sintering step of sintering a compact comprising powder particles can also serve as the diffusing step. In this case if the diffusing step is performed in a temperature range in which liquid phase occurs in the compact diffusion speed inside the compact can be high and efficient diffusion treatment can be performed in a short time.

When a compact comprising powder particles of a rare earth magnet alloy is sintered temperature at which liquid phase occurs in boundaries of a main phase comprising RTMBtype crystal TM a transitional metal element B rich phase and R phase is about 600 to 700 deg. C. For example in a case of an Nd Fe B based rare earth magnet alloy liquid phase starts to occur at 665 deg. C. However when the compact comprises powder particles of a hydrotreated rare earth magnet alloy a reaction RH R Hoccurs at about 750 to 850 deg. C. which is higher than the aforementioned temperature and then the aforementioned liquid phase starts to occur. For example when the compact comprises hydrotreated Nd Fe B based powder particles liquid phase starts to occur at 800 deg. C. Therefore it is preferred to enhance diffusion speed inside the magnet material by heating the magnet material above such a temperature at which liquid phase starts to occur.

It should be noted that in addition to the above process liquid phase within the compact also occurs by formation of a eutectic system of the diffusing element and an element in the powder particles. For example Dy as a diffusing element and Fe in the powder particles start to form liquid phase at a eutectic point of 890 deg. C. The amount of liquid phase in the compact may be increased by formation of such a eutectic system and as a result diffusion speed within the compact can be further enhanced.

 3 A temperature range at which liquid phase occurs in the compact and diffusion speed sharply increases varies with composition of powder particles and the kind of diffusing element and is difficult to be categorically specified. However for example when the magnet material comprises a R TM B based rare earth magnet alloy and the diffusing element comprises a diffusing rare earth element Rd which is at least one of rare earth elements it is preferred that magnet material temperature Tm is 500 to 1100 deg. C. and diffusing material temperature Td is 400 to 1000 deg. C.

With an excessively low magnet material temperature diffusion speed within the magnet material is low and efficient diffusion treatment cannot be performed. With an excessively high magnet material temperature crystal grains are coarsened which causes a decrease in magnetic properties. With an excessively low diffusing material temperature the amount of vapor of the diffusing element is excessively small and efficient diffusion treatment cannot be performed. With an excessively high diffusing material temperature the amount of vapor of the diffusing element is excessively large and an excess of the diffusing element may be deposited or concentrated on a surface of the magnet material so coercivity improvement rate relative to the amount of the scarce diffusing element used decreases.

By the way in order to perform effective diffusion treatment in a short time while suppressing the amount of the scarce diffusing element used it is preferred that the magnet material temperature and the diffusing material temperature have an appropriate temperature difference. As a result of earnest study the present inventors have found that when the magnet material and the diffusing material have the aforementioned compositions it is preferred that the magnet material temperature is higher than the diffusing material temperature and the magnet material temperature and the diffusing material temperature have a temperature difference T Tm Td of 5 to 400 deg. C. or 5 to 250 deg. C. On the basis of this finding it is preferred that the diffusing step of the present invention is a temperature control step of controlling a temperature difference between the magnet material temperature Tm and the diffusing material temperature Td .

 4 By the way the amount of vapor of the diffusing element is influenced not only by the diffusing material temperature but also by gas pressure or degree of vacuum around the diffusing material. For example if the gas pressure is lowered or the degree of vacuum is increased the amount of vapor of the diffusing element can be increased. To put it the other way around if the gas pressure is increased or the degree of vacuum is lowered the amount of vapor of the diffusing element can be decreased. Therefore the amount of vapor of the diffusing element can be controlled not only by adjusting the aforementioned diffusing material temperature but also by adjusting pressure of gas such as inert gas or the degree of vacuum around the diffusing material. Prom this point of view the diffusing step may include a gas pressure control step of controlling pressure of an atmospheric gas including the degree of vacuum surrounding the magnet material and the diffusing material.

It should be noted that when a diffusing rare earth element Bd is diffused into a magnet material comprising a Rm Tm B based rare earth magnet alloy as mentioned above it is preferred that gas pressure degree of vacuum in a treatment furnace is not more than 1 Pa not more than 10Pa not more than 10Pa or not more than 10Pa.

Thus according to the diffusing step of the present invention the diffusing element can be sufficiently diffused into an inside of the magnet material in a treatment time of about 0.5 to 20 hours or 1 to 10 hours.

The magnet material comprises a compact or a sintered body of powder particles comprising a rare earth magnet alloy. The powder particles will be discussed in detail here.

The powder particles comprises a rare earth magnet alloy hereinafter simply referred to as a magnet alloy comprising Rm which is at least one of rare earth elements B and the remainder being transitional metal TM mainly Fe and inevitable impurities with or without a reforming element.

It is preferred that the magnet alloy has a composition which allows formation of Rm rich phase which is effective in improving coercivity and sintering ability of the magnet material when compared to a theoretical composition based on RmTMB. Specifically speaking it is preferred that the magnet alloy is a Rm TM B based alloy comprising 10 to 30 atomic of Rm 1 to 20 atomic of B and the remainder being TM relative to the total number of atoms of the magnet alloy.

An excessively small or large amount of any of the elements affects volume ratio of the RmFeBphase 2 14 1 phase as a main phase which results in deterioration of magnetic properties residual magnetic flux density and lowering of sintering ability. A lower limit value or an upper limit value of Rm or can be arbitrarily selected and set within the above ranges. However especially in a case of obtaining a sintered rare earth magnet when Rm is 12 to 16 atomic and B is 5 to 12 atomic a highly dense rare earth magnet having good magnetic properties can be easily obtained. Moreover TM is basically a main component of the remainder but if it has to be said it is preferred that TM is 72 to 83 atomic . However content of TM being the remainder other than Rm and B can vary with content of a reforming element and inevitable impurities. It should be noted that carbon c can be used in place of B and in this case it is preferred to adjust the sum of B and C to 5 to 12 atomic .

The powder particles are not limited in production method or form. The magnet particles can be what is obtained by applying mechanical pulverization or hydrogen decrepitation to a cast magnet alloy of a desired composition. Moreover the magnet powder can be cast pieces having a thin plate shape obtained by rapidly solidifying a magnet alloy by strip casting or the like what is produced by way of hydrogen treatment such as HDDR Hydrogenation Disproportionation Desorption Recombination method ultrarapidly cooled ribbon particles or films formed by sputtering or the like. Moreover the powder particles can be amorphous.

Although the powder particles are not limited in particle diameter either it is preferred that mean particle diameter particle diameter at a cumulative mass of 50 or Median diameter is about 1 to 20 m or about 3 to 10 m. An excessively small mean particle diameter causes an increase in costs while an excessively large mean particle diameter may cause a decrease in density and magnetic properties of a rare earth magnet though dispersion performance of the diffusing element into an inside is good. It should be noted that powder particles can be a mixture of plural kinds of powders which are different in composition or form e.g. particle shape and particle diameter .

The rare earth magnet of the present invention can be a raw material a final product or one close to the final product. Use application and form of the rare earth magnet are not limited. The rare earth magnet of the present invention can be used for example in a variety of electromagnetic devices such as rotors and stators of electric motors magnetic recording media such as magnetic disks linear actuators linear motors servo motors speakers electric generators and so on.

A schematic view of a diffusion treatment device a device for producing a rare earth magnet which can be used in diffusion treatment of the present invention is shown in . The diffusion treatment device comprises a treatment chamber a preparatory chamber communicating with this treatment chamber an open and shut gate stopping means capable of freely switching on and off of communication between these two chambers a pedestal placing means disposed in the treatment chamber and holding a magnet material M an elevator transferring means for transferring a diffusing material D between the treatment chamber and the preparatory chamber a flat heater diffusing material heating means for heating the diffusing material D attached to the elevator a vapor pack which is an enclosure surrounding the magnet material M and the diffusing material D placed in a vicinity of each other so as to efficiently expose the magnet material M to a vapor atmosphere generating from the diffusing material D.

Although not shown the diffusion treatment device further comprises a vacuum pump gas pressure control means for adjusting the degree of vacuum in the treatment chamber magnet material heating means for heating the magnet material M which can be heating means in the treatment chamber and control means for totally controlling magnet material temperature diffusing material temperature the degree of vacuum in the treatment chamber up and down of the elevator and so on.

Respective specimens anisotropic sintered rare earth magnets subjected to diffusion treatment were produced by using this diffusion treatment device . Hereinafter this diffusion treatment will be described in detail.

A magnet material sintered bodies to be subjected to diffusion treatment was produced as follows. First an Fe 31.5 Nd 1 B 1 Co 0.2 Cu unit by mass magnet alloy was cast. This magnet alloy was subjected to hydrogen decrepitation and then further pulverized by a jet mill thereby obtaining magnet powder having a mean particle diameter D50 Median diameter of 6 m. The pulverization by the jet mill was performed in a nitrogen atmosphere.

This magnet powder was charged in a cavity of a forming mold and molded in a magnetic field thereby obtaining compacts in a rectangular parallelepiped shape with dimensions 20 15 10 mm a forming step . The applied magnet field was 2T The thus obtained formed bodies were heated in a vacuum atmosphere of up to 10Pa at 1 050 deg. C. for 4 hours thereby obtaining sintered bodies a sintering step . A magnet material obtained by polishing surfaces of the sintered bodies was subjected to the following diffusion treatment.

Simple substance Dy metal Dy was prepared as a diffusing material serving as a source of vapor of a diffusing element. Diffusion treatment by a vapor method described below was applied to the aforementioned magnet material by using this diffusing material.

First the magnet material was placed in the treatment chamber of the diffusion treatment device and heated to respective magnet material temperatures Tm shown in Table 1. In parallel with this heating the diffusing material placed in the preparatory chamber was heated to respective diffusing material temperatures Td shown in Table 1. It should be noted that these heating treatments were respectively performed in a vacuum atmosphere of 10Pa.

When the magnet material reached a predetermined temperature Tm the gate was opened and the diffusing material in the preparatory chamber was transferred to the treatment chamber and placed in a vicinity of the magnet material a placing step . At this time the magnet material and the diffusing material have a distance of about 10 mm. In this case both atmospheres in the treatment chamber and the preparatory chamber were controlled to 10Pa Then the magnet material and the diffusing material were respectively heated for two hours at the magnet material temperature Tm and the diffusing material temperature Td shown in Table 1 a diffusing step and then the diffusing material was transferred to the preparatory chamber and the gate was closed.

 3 As comparative examples specimens were produced by placing the magnet material and the diffusing material in the same treatment chamber from the beginning and heating these two materials at the same temperatures. In this case an atmosphere in the treatment chamber was also a vacuum atmosphere of 10Pa but heating time was 128 hours. The reason why the heating time was increased in the comparative examples when compared to the examples is that diffusion hardly proceeded in a short time of about 2 hours and the amount of diffusion Rd Dy was almost zero.

For the respective obtained specimens coercivity was measured by using a pulsed high field magnetometer. Also the amount of Dy diffused into the respective specimens was measured by an electron probe microanalyzer EPMA and by high frequency inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometer ICP . The measurement results thus obtained are shown together in Table 1. Furthermore a difference in coercivity of each of the specimens between before and after the diffusion treatment HcJ kOe was divided by the amount of the diffusing element diffused into each of the specimens Rd Dy in these examples mass thereby obtaining a coercivity improvement rate. The coercivity improvement rate was further divided by diffusion treatment time t time thereby calculating a diffusion efficiency HcJ Dy t kOe mass time The calculated diffusion efficiency is also shown in Table 1. Moreover shows a relation between a temperature difference between the magnet material temperature Tm and the diffusing material temperature Td T Tm Td and the amount of Dy diffused per unit time.

It is apparent from the results shown in Table 1 and that even heating in a short time can sufficiently diffuse the diffusing element Dy into an inside of the magnet by performing diffusion treatment by selecting appropriate magnet material temperature Tm and diffusing material temperature Td Moreover when the diffusion treatment of the present invention is compared with conventional diffusion treatment in which the magnet material and the diffusing material were heated at the same temperature in the same treatment chamber the aforementioned diffusion efficiency improved on a quite different scale 10 to 1000 times and it is apparent that coercivity can be improved efficiently in a short time while suppressing the amount of scarce Dy.

