---

title: Method and system for initiating secure transactions within a defined geographic region
abstract: An approach for enabling contextual categories to be associated and scored in connection with a defined geographic region is described. A transient services platform establishes, based on biometric authentication of a user, a limited session for completing a transaction. The transient services platform then determines, based on a defined geographic region, a context to associate with the transaction. Credentials associated with the user are transferred to the transaction agent based on the authentication and the determined context.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08731195&OS=08731195&RS=08731195
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08731195
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120518
---
Service providers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by providing compelling network services and advancing the underlying technologies. One area of interest has been the development of services for enabling secure execution of transactions. Typically service providers designate Trusted Service Managers TSM and associated one time passwords in software hardware or a combination of both to facilitate secure execution. Resultantly the context of the transactional session to be performed is based on what the user uniquely knows e.g. a pin or rolling password and what the user has in their physical possession e.g. a phone with a specific type of e mail client and or digital key fob . Still further some transactional sessions require direct validation of location or presence information provided by the user s mobile device. Hence traditional approaches provide no convenient way to facilitate execution of transactions without reliance upon user or device centric contextual information.

Based on the foregoing there is a need for enabling transactions to be performed securely and efficiently.

An apparatus method and software for enabling transactions to be performed securely within a defined geographic region is described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Although the various exemplary embodiments are described with respect to transactions it is contemplated these embodiments have applicability to any instructions activities or processes to be carried out in connection with a user or item associated with the user including software and hardware related processes. Also while various embodiments are described with respect to personal items of a user in the form of a mobile device it is contemplated these embodiments have applicability to any sensor based items including encoded cards e.g. plastic cards Smart Cards personal sensors e.g. fobs or identification transmitters and the like.

Hence the context of the transaction is directly indicated by the user or discerned by way of various active sensors of the user s mobile device. Unfortunately traditional approaches provide no convenient way to facilitate execution of transactions without reliance upon user or device centric contextual information being directly provided. Still further many applications and services that facilitates execution of transactions rely upon manual data entry e.g. entry of credit card numbers or pin number as a function of the application or for security reasons thus limiting the ability of users to seamlessly execute secure transactions of various contexts e.g. types as they travel about.

To address this issue the system includes a transient services platform that enables a combination of security and location based featured to be performed in connection with the facilitation of a transaction. By way of example the transient services platform is configured to manage a session for enabling a transaction completion process to be carried out over a limited period of time. The limited time frame corresponds to a one time execution of the session in response to a request. Also the limited time frame corresponds to a period of time e.g. seconds in which the user may provide the necessary inputs required to facilitate the transaction or the allotted time for completion of the overall transaction.

The transactional session is performed in connection with the user and various transaction agents . Initiation of the request as well as fulfillment of the transaction for the user can be based on the following a what the user uniquely knows e.g. a password fact authoriziation data b what the user uniquely has e.g. a personal item associated with the user c what the user uniquely is e.g. a confirmed authorized user or agent for initiating and completing the transaction and d contextual derivation of applicability.

The above described factors correspond to one or more security and or location based executions that are managed by the transient services platform . In particular the executions are enabled to be performed with minimal intervention of the user beyond the point of user authorization to carry out the transaction e.g. item c above . Moreover the context of the transaction may be determined with no reliance upon sensed collected real time context information gathering by a device e.g. user device associated with the user. Rather in certain embodiments the transient services platform accesses scored grid data for deriving a relative location of the user and associating a context e.g. a transaction type with the user based on the location. The scored grid data may be accessed from third party location based service e.g. service or other enabling data repository made available to the transient services platform or service provider thereof.

By way of example the scored grid data includes data corresponding to location information references via defined grid database e.g. United States National Grid USNG reference system or any other reference grid. Alternatively the defined grid data may include any other location data source geodetic data source topographic data source geographic information system or the like for specifying and naming points coordinates within a particular geographic region. Still further the scored grid data is associated with one or more scores and or signal strengths which represent a level of affinity of the defined geographic area with specific contextual categories. The level of affinity therefore represents a likelihood of presence prevalence or concentration of specific points of interest POIs matching a particular contextual category associated with the defined geographic region e.g. a 10 10 meter region for the USNG. For example in the case of a scaled ranking from 1 to 10 a score of 8.2 for POIs corresponding to the contextual category of Restaurants may indicate a higher propensity for restaurants to be located within the same geographic region than Amusement Parks at 2.4. Hence the transient services platform may deduce based on the scored grid data that a transaction request associated with the defined geographic region is associated with a restaurant transaction. It is noted also that the scores may also correspond to a strength signal and associated color coding for indicating the level of affinity of the region with a given context as well as a contextual category e.g. transaction type of which the region is aligned.

As will be discussed further the transaction agents may be placed at various locations throughout the defined geographic region for use in connection with the transient services platform to facilitate a transactional session. The scored grid data may therefore be cross referenced against a list of known transactional agents corresponding to the geographic area for deducing a related context of the transaction.

In certain embodiments one or more transaction agents are configured for operation within a defined geographic region to interact with a personal item of the user for facilitation of a transactional session. In certain embodiments the transaction may include any series of steps processes or executions required to enable fulfillment of an arrangement between parties e.g. a vendor and a user. The transaction may include a purchase transaction a data access transaction a security transaction an actuation action or the like. Under this scenario the transaction may be associated with a parking garage a vending mechanism a security gate a door lock turnstiles person to person payments a data download server access facility entry ticket and or coupon redemption etc.

The transaction agents are configured in certain embodiments to be placed within proximity of the location of the transaction. For instance in the case of a transaction involving a turnstile the transaction agent may be implemented as a software or hardware device that is incorporated within affixed to or placed near the turnstile. Similarly in the case of a vendor booth the transaction agent may be incorporated within a point of sales terminal or placed in a location that is visible to the user near the booth. Under this scenario the transaction agent may include various wireless and or sensor detection components for both transmitting and receiving signals from the mobile device or other personal item of a user. Hence transaction agents may be used to initiate and facilitate execution of a transaction in connection with the user device or other personal item . The personal item may include a user device UD of the user a sensor based card a personal transmitter e.g. fob or radio frequency transmitter or the like.

In certain embodiments the transient services platform manages the various transaction agents including facilitating execution of a transaction based on a bonding procedure between the transaction agents and the personal item and or user device . By way of example a bonding procedure pertains to the ability of a user to seamlessly transfer transaction related credentials such as passwords credit card information or identification data to a corresponding transaction agent . Under this scenario the credentials are accessed from a credential management service that maintains credentials data in connection with a given user. As such the transient services platform interacts with the credential management service to access the data in response to a request for completion of a transaction in connection with a user via a transaction agent .

It is noted that the transient services platform may therefore operate in direct connection with or on behalf of the various transaction agents and or the credential management services. The transient services platform is configured to communicate with the carious transaction agents independently or in connection with one or more associated services operable in conjunction with the agents . This may include for example a payment processing service or order fulfillment service. While implementations may vary the transient services platform is configured to bridge the transactional executions of the respective services transaction agents and respective sites where said transactions are to occur. Also in the case of a personal item in the form of a user device UD e.g. mobile device the transient services platform permits various applications having functions for carrying out transactions to be fulfilled with minimal interaction of the user.

For the purpose of illustration the bond is formulated based on a handshake or other triggering mechanism related to or initiated by the user. Hence the handshake for initiating a bond may occur via a gesture performed by the user audible inaudible sound input provided by the user or visible non visible light wave input. Under this scenario the gesture sound or light signal may correspond to a secret pattern of inputs required to be provided by the user as they are within physical proximity of the transaction agent . Transference of the secret pattern may be facilitated in certain embodiments by way of a bond application operating at the user device . Alternatively the transference mechanism may be encoded as one or more instructions of the personal item e.g. encoded within a sensor of a plastic card for activation based on a proximity condition.

In certain embodiments initiation of a transactional session is authorized for commencement based on biometric authentication of the user. For example a biometric module may be configured to gather exchange and process multiple different types of biometric data pertaining to the user. This includes for example the gathering of voice data concurrent with the gathering of video data of the user s face. Various sensors of the user device are employed to facilitate the gathering of voice and face characteristics of the user. Alternatively a collection system device or sensor bank at the location of the transaction agent may be used to gather the data. It is contemplated that the biometric authentication of the user may be performed at the user device by the transient services platform or a combination thereof for enabling a level of secure transaction authentication to be performed.

Also in certain embodiments the biometric module may operate in connection with the bond application such that when the bond application is called for execution a preliminary authentication of the user is performed. Actual biometric authentication of the user may established as criteria for execution of the bond application e.g. for initiating a bonding procedure between a specific personal item and or user device and the various transaction agents 

In summary the following scenarios exist with respect to system for facilitating a transactional session. In one scenario the user that solicits a request for a transactional session is a person currently located in the defined geographic region having access to one or more transaction agents . The user is aware of a fact e.g. password that can be cross checked by the transient services platform against something the user has physical access to e.g. user device or personal item .

In another use case the personal item may be used to initiate a bonding procedure in conjunction with the transaction agent e.g. based on a secret pattern. The secret pattern may correspond to a combination of gestures sounds or light wave inputs. Also the transient services platform has access to scored grid data regarding the defined geographic region therefore enabling the platform to correlate a specific contextual category and therefore transaction type with the defined geographic region . Further a number of transaction agents are also located in the same defined geographic range and particularly activated from within the same proximity of the user.

Based on the above explanation an exemplary transactional session procedure carried out with respect to the platform of system is as follows 1 the user provides biometric authentication e.g. done locally for enabling a session request to be initiated. This may include facial recognition fingerprint authentication retinal scanning brain wave pattern scanning Deoxyribonucleic Acid DNA scanning etc. 2 the session request is enabled wirelessly as facilitated via a bonding mechanism between the transaction agents and a personal item of the user. Validation of the handshake may be facilitated or confirmed by the transient services platform by way of transference of the input data e.g. motion and or light data via a communication network 3 the transient services platform accesses scored grid data based on an association between the transaction agents and the defined area in which they are located and 4 the transient services platform derives based on the scored grid data the possible transaction types contexts of the request by analyzing the respective scores and the qualified transaction agents for the corresponding region .

It is noted that the transient services platform allows for anonymity to be maintained during the transactional session. Hence while there is non repudiatable cross referencing of the transactional agents for a given geographic area or cross referencing of user biometric data with a profile of the user no sensor data is gathered with respect to the user. Moreover the transient services platform is contextually agnostic therefore enabling the context to be defined subsequent to the request as opposed to being a conditional variable for facilitation of the transactional request. As such the transient services platform may be used in connection with various user device and other personal items of the user as an alternative to near field communication. Under this approach user device generated sensor data is not required to support the transactional process.

It is noted that user devices may be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer Personal Digital Assistants PDAs smartphone or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the user devices can support any type of interface for supporting the presentment or exchange of data. In addition user devices may facilitate various input means for receiving and generating information including touch screen capability keyboard and keypad data entry voice based input mechanisms and the like. Any known and future implementations of user devices are applicable. For the purpose of illustration user devices may be devices for accessing the affinity determination platform as a user of an application or as a service provider.

In certain embodiments user devices the affinity determination platform services and other elements of system may be configured to communicate via a service provider network . According to certain embodiments one or more networks such as data network telephony network and or wireless network can interact with the service provider network . Networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network.

Networks may employ various technologies for enabling wireless communication including for example code division multiple access CDMA long term evolution LTE enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Still further the communication provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner the communication network may embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 SS7 network Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions.

It is noted though not shown in the figure that in certain embodiments user devices may be configured to establish peer to peer communication sessions with each other using a variety of technologies near field communication NFC Bluetooth ZigBee infrared etc. Also connectivity can be provided via a wireless local area network LAN . By way of example a group of user devices may be configured to a common LAN so that each device can be uniquely identified via any suitable network addressing scheme. For example the LAN may utilize the dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP to dynamically assign private DHCP internet protocol IP addresses to each user device e.g. IP addresses that are accessible to devices connected to the service provider network as facilitated via a router.

In addition the transient services platform also accesses the scored grid data such as from a third party location based service provider. In addition the platform may maintain profile data related to one or more users subscribed with a provider of the platform . Still further while not shown the platform may access credentials data related to the user as maintained by a credential management service. It is noted that modules access one or more of these peripheral data sources for performing their respective functions.

In one embodiment an authentication module authenticates users of user devices or personal item for interaction with the platform . By way of example the authentication module receives a request to subscribe to the platform . The subscription process may include for example establishing one or more access credentials and usage policies along with biometric profile data related to the user. One or more privacy settings and or preferences may also be established including a secret pattern to be used in connection with a bonding procedure. Preferences and settings information may be referenced to a specific user user device service provider or combination thereof and maintained as subscription data not shown .

The authentication process performed by the module may also include receiving and validating access credentials for a particular user. For example a login name and or user identification value may be received from the user device or other device via a graphical user interface to the platform e.g. as provided via a transaction agent . Subscription data for respective subscribers which contains pertinent user or device profile data may be cross referenced as part of the login process. Alternatively the login process may be performed through automated association of profile settings maintained as registration data with an IP address a carrier detection signal of a user device mobile directory number MDN subscriber identity module SIM e.g. of a SIM card radio frequency identifier RFID tag or other identifier.

It is contemplated in certain embodiments that the authentication module may also be configured to perform various biometric authentication procedures. This corresponds to an implementation wherein the authentication is not performed locally e.g. via the user device. Alternatively a combination of local device and or transaction agent related processing may be performed concurrent with platform based authentications to facilitate expedited user authentication. Regardless of the implementation the authentication module receives initial requests for establishment of a transactional session via the platform .

In one embodiment the context interpreter identifies a specific set of contextual categories per the categories data are to be related to a particular defined geographic region. The interpreter then associates a particular transaction type with the particular transaction agents corresponding to the request received by the authentication module . Operating in connection with the context interpreter is the scored data access module which facilitates the gathering of scored grid data from a third party location based service. The context interpreter thus analyzes the scored grid data as well as cross references the data against a list of known transaction agents associated with the defined region.

In one embodiment the initiation module receives a request to complete the transaction via a transaction agent associated with a defined geographic region. This includes authenticating a handshake associated with the bonding procedure. Hence the initiation module may verify the authenticity of a given secret pattern provided per the handshaking process. In addition the module may also trigger execution of the services access module for facilitating establishment of a session with a credentials management service associated with the user e.g. as indicted within the profile data . As noted the credentials management service may host specific data related to the user required for fulfilling a transaction including credit card information access and or security information etc.

The initiation module utilizes the results of the context interpreter to indicate to the credential management service which particular credentials are required. For example in the case of a purchase transaction payment processing credentials are requested. In the case of user access to a security gate or other barrier associated access information is requested. Once the appropriate credentials are accessed the initiation module further initiates transfer of the credentials associated with the user to the transaction agent associated with the defined geographic region. The initiation module then alerts the authentication module of completion of the transaction which causes an ending of the established transaction session via the communication interface .

In one embodiment the user interface module enables presentment of a graphical user interface for presenting the output data . By way of example the user interface module generates the interface in response to application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls corresponding to a browser application or dedicated application thus enabling the display of graphics primitives. As another example the user interface module may also operate in connection with a calling service or application to permit rendering transformation or translation of the output data in response to a request.

In one embodiment a communication interface enables formation of a session over a network between the platform the services and or and the transaction agents . By way of example the communication interface executes various protocols and data sharing techniques for enabling collaborative execution between a subscriber s user device e.g. mobile devices laptops smartphones tablet computers desktop computers servers workstations and the platform over the network . It is noted that the communication interface is also configured to support a browser session e.g. the retrieval of content as referenced by a resource identifier during a specific period of time or usage of the browser.

The above presented modules and components of the platform can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. In another embodiment one or more of the modules may be implemented for operation by users as a platform hosted solution cloud based service or the like. It is noted that the various modules may be used selectively or in combination within the context of a location based service or transaction fulfillment service

In step of process the transient services platform establishes based on biometric authentication of a user a limited session for completing a transaction. By way of example the biometric authentication may be performed locally at a user device . Alternatively the location for facilitating the transaction may be equipped with various sensors and or scanners for performing biometric authentication. Under the latter scenario the biometric authentication procedure is performed via a local computer terminal operating in connection with a biometric application of the device.

As noted the limited session may correspond to a length of time allotted for completing the transaction. In addition the limited session also refers to a limited time to live of a session once established e.g. only a one time transaction is enabled. This execution also enables additional security to be associated with the transactional process as repeat unauthorized attempts are eliminated.

In step the platform receives based on a bonding procedure initiated via a personal item of the user a request to complete the transaction through a transaction agent associated with a defined geographic region. It is noted that the bonding procedure is carried out between the transaction agent and the personal item and may include validation of a handshake between the respective agent and the personal item e.g. user device . The transient services platform may receive from the transaction agent notification that the bond was generated thus triggering submission of the request.

Per step the platform determines based on the defined geographic region a context to associate with the transaction. In step the platform determines based on the context a transaction type to associate with the transaction. As noted the context may correspond to a particular transaction type for denoting various characteristics details or qualities associated with the transactional request. In another step the platform initiates based on the authentication and the determined context a transfer of credentials associated with the user to the transaction agent. As noted previously the credentials are retrieved by the platform from a credential management service assigned by the user.

In step of process the platform receives a biometric input for authenticating an identity of the user. Per step the platform also associates the user with a personal item based on the identity. As noted previously this association may be based on cross referencing of the personal item with data maintained in a profile database regarding the user. This is performed for enablement of the bonding procedure between a respective device and a given transaction agent e.g. as a further security or session establishment requirement and not for context determination purposes. In step the platform authenticates a handshake associated with the bonding procedure. The handshake may be a gesture sound or light signal that corresponds to a secret action associated with the user and or the personal item of the user.

In step of process the platform initiates based on the authentication a session with a credentials management service associated with the user. Per step the platform also submits based on the context a request for credentials required for completion of the transaction. As noted previously the context is defined based at least in part on the accessing of scored grid data including analysis of one or more scores signal strengths and colors associated with a defined reference grid. In steps and the platform confirms completion of the transaction within the limited time period and ends the session based on the confirmation.

In the user is shown performing the biometric authentication procedure according to different approaches both of which pertain to local processing of biometric inputs. As noted the biometric authentication is a prerequisite security function required to enable a transaction session request to be submitted to the platform . In a first approach labeled OPTION 1 the user employs a personal item in the form of their mobile device to perform the biometric authentication. Under this scenario a biometric application operating at the mobile device receives voice signals corresponding to a phrase required to be recited by the user. While not shown or discussed extensively herein the phrase may correspond to that required to be recited during an initial enrollment process. In addition to voice data visual data pertaining to the user s face may also be collected concurrent with the voice signal . Additional biometric inputs such as retinal DNA brain wave pattern and or odor related data may also be performed.

In the second approach labeled OPTION 2 instead of the local device the user employs a device positioned within proximity of the security gate. For example the security gate may feature a computer terminal or data entry collection node that features one or more sensors for facilitating the gathering of biometric information. Under this scenario the user may be presented with various interface options for facilitating the input gathering process as well as for accessing the transient services platform . It is noted with regards to OPTION 2 that the computer terminal and or data entry collection node may operate in conjunction with the user device . Regardless of implementation the biometric authentication is performed locally with results of the authentication being used to enable a limited time session for completion of the transaction.

Once the user is authenticated the user initiates a bonding procedure with the transaction agent of the security gate . This includes for example launching a bond application at the mobile device . The user then performs a secret pattern corresponding to the execution of the bonding application. As noted previously the pattern corresponds to a handshake or other triggering mechanism related to or initiated by the user the handshake being unique to the user. While shown as a motion gesture in this example the handshake for initiating a bond may also be a sound light signal or a combination thereof.

As a result of the secret pattern being performed a wireless communication exchange represented by the signal is formulated between the device and the transaction agent . This exchange signifies validation of the handshaking procedure and hence an active bond between the transaction agent of the security gate and the device . Under this scenario the bond application causes presentment of a notification message to the user interface of the device for indicating that bond detection mode is active. In certain embodiments the notification message may also include a timer for indicating an amount of time remaining for the user to establish and or complete a transaction session for accessing the gate .

In response to the bonding procedure being performed the request to initiate a gate entry transaction is facilitated. This is carried out by way of the communication network wherein the transaction agent alerts the transient services platform of a request to initiate a transaction. Consequently the transient services platform accesses scored grid data corresponding to the defined geographic region associated with the transaction agent . Based on information the platform is then able to discern a limited number of possible corresponding transaction types associated with the defined region. In certain embodiments the platform may utilize the credentials data associated with the user or other corroborating information to further isolate the possibility to a single selection. Of note a higher score and or signal strength associated with the given geographic region also factors into the determination process.

Once the context is determined the credentials associated with the user with respect to the transaction type associated with the security gate is accessed. These credentials are then transferred to the transaction agent to permit execution of the gate entry process as shown in . Also a notification message is presented to the display of the device is updated to reflect that entry completion of the transaction was fulfilled and granted in connection with the specific credentials of the user .

The exemplary techniques and systems presented herein enables contextual categories to be associated and scored in connection with a defined geographic region. One advantage of the exemplary techniques and systems presented herein is the ability of the transient service platform to recognize the context of a transaction without reliance upon user or device provided contextual information. Another advantage is that multiple methods of discovery for initiating a bond can be mixed and matched automatically without requiring intervention from the user e.g. Bluetooth Wi Fi NFC wireless sensor network WSN and or 3G 4G technologies. As such the transient services platform facilitates pre NFC and or legacy mobile devices to benefit from the dissemination of transaction agents about a geographic region.

The processes described herein for enabling contextual categories to be associated and scored in connection with a defined geographic region may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The processes described herein for enabling transactions to be performed securely within a defined geographic region may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for adjusting cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium or non transitory e.g. non volatile media and volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to enable transactions to be performed securely within a defined geographic region. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

