---

title: Coordination of collaboration partners
abstract: Various embodiments of systems and methods for coordination of collaboration partners are described herein. Data from a plurality of collaboration partners is received during a collaboration process. The collaboration process involves one or more of the collaboration partners at one or more stages of the collaboration process. The data comprises process data relevant to the collaboration process. The received data is stored in one or more collaboration objects. In response to a request from a collaboration partner, a customized view of the one or more collaboration objects is generated and provided to the requesting collaboration partner based on access controls. The customized view includes information about the process data that is allowed to be viewed according to the access controls associated with the requesting collaboration partner.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09269071&OS=09269071&RS=09269071
owner: SAP SE
number: 09269071
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20120405
---
Inter organizational processes may require coordination between organizations. Inter organizational processes exist in areas such as but not limited to transportation and logistics supply chain management and healthcare. An inter organizational process involves different organizations at different stages of the process. Organizations perform respective activities during various stages of the process. Information about such activities should be shared for better coordination and successful completion of the process. An organization can share activity information with another organization through various communication channels. However information exchange is mostly bilateral in that two organizations share information and the shared information may not be accessible to other organizations. This would restrict effective coordination between key stakeholders of the inter organizational process.

Embodiments of techniques for coordination of collaboration partners are described herein. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment this embodiment and similar phrases means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus the appearances of these phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

A collaboration process is initiated by a collaboration partner and once the process is started the collaboration partners play their respective roles during various stages of the process. At data is received from the collaboration partners during the collaboration process. Referring to in one embodiment data is extracted from backend systems and of the collaboration partners. Collaboration partners typically use enterprise systems to store and manage data related to their operations. When a collaboration partner performs an operation during a particular stage of a collaboration process data about that operation can be stored in a backend enterprise system. This data can be useful for other collaboration partners. For example consider that a collaboration partner X is aground transport carrier and a collaboration partner Y is an airfreight carrier. The ground transport carrier can use an enterprise system to manage various operations. Data about a consignment of goods that is transported by the ground transport carrier is stored in a backend enterprise system of the ground transport carrier. This data can include details such as characteristics of the consignment such as dimensions and weight. The data can also include the ground transport status such as delay on time estimated time of delivery delivered etc.

The data stored by the ground transport carrier can be useful for other collaboration partners in the collaboration process. For example data stored by the ground transport carrier can be useful for the airfreight carrier. The consignment characteristics stored at the ground transport carrier is useful to the airfreight carrier. Based on the consignment characteristics the aircraft carrier can plan its operations. The airfreight carrier can store airfreight status in its backend enterprise system . Data stored by the ground transport carrier and airfreight carrier is also useful for the customer who placed the order for the shipment.

To enable extraction of data collaboration partners can provide a restricted read access for the stored data. Contracts or agreements between collaboration partners can grant or define such restricted access of data. For example if the method is implemented by a collaboration partner then other collaboration partners provide restricted read access of the stored data to the host or the implementing collaboration partner. The host collaboration partner or any other implementer of the method can therefore extract relevant data from the collaboration partners. In one embodiment identity and access management techniques can be used to define restricted access to data. For example a user profile for a collaboration partner can be defined with a restricted read access to service interfaces such as Simple Object Access SOAP based access points. The restricted read access enables access of the data relevant to the collaboration process and restricts access to other data stored in the backend systems of the collaboration partners.

In one embodiment data relevant to collaboration can be provided by the collaboration partners. Some collaboration partners may not have enterprise backend systems or may not be able to provide access to their backend enterprise systems. Such collaboration partners can access an application to enter data relevant to the collaboration process. For example a ground transport carrier can log on to the application and enter consignment data and progress of the transport process. Data thus provided via the application is then received.

Data that is received from the collaboration partners can be categorized into static data and process data. Static data is the data that is common and is unchanged throughout a particular collaboration process. For example in the case of the logistics process data of consignment characteristics is static and remains constant regardless of the type of the carrier. As another example in a healthcare scenario patient details such as name age and other physical characteristics can be the static data. Process data is data that is relevant to progress or status of the collaboration process. For example in the context of logistics process data includes details such as a location of the consignment carrier of the consignment transport status of the consignment such as delay or on time statuses by various carriers etc.

Referring back to at data that is received from the collaboration partners is stored in one or more collaboration objects. As shown in the static data and the process data are stored in a collaboration object . In one embodiment the static data and the process data are stored in an encapsulated manner. Encapsulation in the context of object oriented programming ensures integrity of the data that is stored in the object. Encapsulation conceals the way an object is implemented and prevents unauthorized access. In one embodiment a collaboration object stores data received from a group of collaboration partners involved in a collaboration process. For example in the case of transport of goods a collaboration object can store data received from all the carriers involved in the transport process.

In contrast to existing data integration systems the method enables process driven integration. Preservation of business context via the collaboration objects allows data integration from the collaboration platform embodying the method to existing backend systems e.g. and referring to . This makes transparent use of existing systems possible. For example an existing SCM system can be used to create a transport order. The management of the transport order is realized by the method and is thus based on collaboration objects. If origin context of the data within the collaboration object is preserved each manipulation on the collaboration object can also update an underlying backend system. This allows transparent integration of information for backend users.

Referring to the collaboration objects and are stored. In one embodiment the storage can be at a location of the host collaboration partner. In another embodiment a collaboration services provider can implement the method and the storage can be at the location of the service provider. In another embodiment the collaboration objects can be stored and managed on a cloud based system.

Referring back to at a customized view of the stored collaboration objects is provided to a collaboration partner involved in the collaboration process. The collaboration partner can raise a request via an application to obtain information about the collaboration process. The customized view is generated and provided in response to the request. The customized view provides a view of the stored collaboration objects that are relevant to the collaboration process. The customized view provides information based on the access controls associated with the requesting collaboration partner. These access controls can be based on the roles of the collaboration partners in the collaboration process. In one embodiment access controls are defined for the process data stored in the collaboration objects.

Referring to the customized views are customized such that different sets of information are provided to different collaboration partners in accordance with the access controls. The access controls can be defined in agreements between the collaboration partners. For example terms of business agreements between collaboration partners can define what information related to collaboration process can be shared between them. Based on terms and conditions in agreements a host collaboration partner or a collaboration services provider can define access controls on what information can be provided to a particular collaboration partner. In one embodiment access controls can be defined by creating roles for the collaboration partners with restricted read and write access to the stored collaboration objects . For example consider that a first collaboration partner is allowed to have access to information A B and C according to an agreement. Therefore a role for the first collaboration partner can be defined with read access to access information A B and C that is stored in the collaboration objects. Therefore information A B and C can then be provided to the first collaboration partner via a first customized view in response to a request from the first collaboration partner . An authorized user from the first collaboration partner can request for information via an application on a computing device such as a laptop desktop tablet computer or mobile phone. In response to this request the first customized view is generated and provided to the user. The first customized view is then displayed on the computing device.

Similarly consider that a second collaboration partner is allowed to have access to information A and B and a third collaboration partner is allowed to have access to information A and C. A role for the second collaboration partner can be defined with read access to access information A and B and a role for the third collaboration partner can be defined with read access to access information A and C. Information A and B can be provided to the second collaboration partner via a second customized view and information A and C can be provided to the third collaboration partner via a third customized view .

In one embodiment the provider of the collaboration objects defines custom access rules or controls on the views. The provider can introduce specialized rules for different types of processes. For example in the logistics scenario it might be necessary to define different customized views for international transport and domestic transport in a healthcare scenario several doctors may be involved in treatment of a patient and specialized customized views on patient data may need to be defined. This approach is therefore process specific unlike role based approaches.

In one embodiment the collaboration partners can provide data relevant to collaboration process via their respective customized views. This data can be about any status or progress update about the collaboration process. The customized views can have reporting functionalities to provide such updates. For example a user from a collaboration partner can request a respective customized view and provide status updates such as delay on time etc. using the reporting functionalities on the customized view. The data thus provided by the collaboration partners is also received as in and stored or updated in the collaboration objects as in .

Referring to HG coordination between collaboration partners of an international freight transport is explained as an example embodiment. A customer intends to transport goods from a source to a destination . A customer can employ a logistics vendor to transport goods. The logistics vendor organizes and executes the transport of goods by inviting one or more carriers. A transport process can have several transport legs. A carrier is employed in each of these transport legs. For example as shown in the figure the transport of goods from the source to the destination involves three transport legs. A first carrier is involved from transporting goods from the source to a first location . This first leg of transport from the source to the first location e.g. a first port can be through a freight train and the first carrier can be a freight train organization.

A second leg of transport involves transporting goods from the first location to a second location . A second carrier is involved in the second leg of transport. This second leg of transport can be a ship transport and the second carrier can be a shipping carrier. A third leg of transport involves transporting goods from the second location e.g. a second port to the destination . A third carrier is involved in the third leg of transport. This third leg of transport can be a ground transport e.g. via truck and the third carrier can be a ground transport carrier.

The logistics vendor can handle import export formalities with the port authorities and of first and second ports. The logistics vendor can also handle other necessary transport related aspects such as financial aspects and insurance by dealing with banks and insurance companies . The logistics vendor carriers and port authorities and banks and insurance companies can form a collaborative partnership through general agreements. These agreements define various terms and conditions for collaboration. Some terms and conditions can define what information is required for collaboration and can be shared between them. In one embodiment the logistics vendor can be a host collaboration partner and can host a collaboration management system embodying the method of coordination between the collaboration partners. The collaboration partners agree to use the collaboration management system. The logistics vendor can therefore define access controls for the carriers.

The customer requests transport of goods. The logistics vendor can provide an offer to manage the transport including various formalities. Once the customer accepts the offer the logistics vendor and the customer can sign an agreement. This agreement includes terms and conditions about usage of a backend system of the customer. To organize and conduct transportation the logistics vendor needs information about the goods needed to be transported. All information related to goods may not be needed. Information relevant for transport such as size weight pick up location and destination etc. is required by the logistics vendor . Therefore in accordance with the agreement this relevant information can be automatically extracted from the back end system of the customer into the collaboration management system. To enable automatic extraction the customer can provide a restricted read access to the backend system to the logistics vendor . In another embodiment the customer can access an application to provide the information to the logistics vendor . This information about goods received by the logistics vendor from the customer is stored in a collaboration object. The collaboration object stores this information about goods as static data.

The logistics vendor can then define the overall transport plan. The logistics vendor can define transport legs select the carriers that are part of collaborative network and arrange for any necessary documentation such as import export declarations customs declarations insurances etc. In one embodiment the logistics vendor can inspect the capacities and offers provided by the carriers and . Since the carriers and the logistics vendor are collaboration partners the logistics vendor can extract data from back end systems of the carriers and . This data can include details about availability capacity and pricing. Similarly the logistics vendor can extract regulations costs and declarations related data from back end systems of port authorities and banks and insurance companies .

Following which transport legs and carriers are selected and any necessary transport documents can be prepared by the logistics vendor . A logistics plan is then defined. The logistics plan includes details about transport process such as transport legs of the transport process and carriers involved in the transport legs. The logistics plan is stored in one or more collaboration objects in the collaboration management system. In one embodiment the collaboration objects can be encrypted for storage in the collaboration management system.

A collaboration partner involved in the transport process is provided with a view of the collaboration objects that is customized for that collaboration partner. Each collaboration partner requires a different view of the collaboration process and in view of agreements allowed to see certain information of the collaboration process that is stored in the collaboration objects. In one embodiment access controls for collaboration partners are defined for the process data stored in the collaboration objects. Access controls for a collaboration partner determine what process data e.g. transport status can be viewed by that collaboration partner. Access controls can be defined by the logistics vendor by creating roles for the carriers and and port authorities and with restricted read and write access to the stored collaboration objects. For example the carriers and are mainly interested in the transport legs they are involved in. Also to better organize their internal fleet and load management a carrier may need to know transport status of a previous transport leg. Therefore access controls can be defined accordingly and the customized view for a carrier can include transport status of that carrier and transport status of a previous transport leg if any. For example the second carrier may need to know whether goods will be delivered on time by the first carrier . For this reason the customized view for the second carrier includes status of the first transport leg.

The port authorities and are interested in the incoming and outgoing freight along with necessary customs declarations. Therefore the customized view for a port authority can include details such as arrival time of freight. Logistics vendor can have the right to see the overall logistics plan and transport status information for all the transport legs and other details such as pricing details of the carriers. Therefore the customized view for the logistics vendor includes overall logistics plan and transport statuses of various carriers and pricing details. The customized views for all the collaboration partners can include static data such as characteristics of goods.

The transport is initiated and conducted as defined in the logistics plan which is stored in the collaboration management system. During the transport process the collaboration objects are updated. Static data such as characteristics of goods such as size weight and dimensions store in the collaboration objects remain constant. Process data such as the status of the transport can be updated based on the information provided by the carriers. For example when the goods are picked up by the first carrier the transport status can be updated to In freight train or other similar status update to indicate that the goods are in first transport leg. In one embodiment such updates can be provided by the first carrier to the logistics vendor via the customized view. For example the first carrier can provide an update that the shipment is on time using reporting functionalities in the customized view. In another embodiment transport status updates can be extracted from backend systems of the carriers.

The transport process is flexible and can be changed depending on the situation. For example if the second leg of transport is delayed due to bad weather the second carrier can report such delay to the collaboration management system. The logistics vendor can have this update via the customized view. The logistics vendor can then adapt the logistics plan accordingly. This adapted logistics plan is reflected in the collaboration objects. Other collaboration partners such as the third carrier and port authorities can view this delay update or updated logistics plan to adjust their operations.

It should be noted that the above described coordination method between collaboration partners can be employed in various other scenarios in addition to transport scenario described above. Proper coordination between collaboration partners is essential for smooth flow and successful completion of a collaboration process. The coordination method enables information exchange between the collaboration partners during the collaboration process. Therefore collaboration partners can keep track of the progress of the collaboration process and adjust their operations accordingly. Also customized views on the collaboration objects restrict the information that can be viewed by the collaboration partners. This prevents any unauthorized or unnecessary access of collaboration data. The central management of the collaboration objects by a host collaboration paltrier or any other implementer of the method ensures consistency of the information.

Some embodiments of the invention may include the above described methods being written as one or more software components. These components and the functionality associated with each may be used by client server distributed or peer computer systems. These components may be written in a computer language corresponding to one or more programming languages such as functional declarative procedural object oriented lower level languages and the like. They may be linked to other components via various application programming interfaces and then compiled into one complete application for a server or a client. Alternatively the components may be implemented in server and client applications. Further these components may be linked together via various distributed programming protocols. Some example embodiments of the invention may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of these components across a distributed programming environment. For example a logic level may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system containing an interface level e.g. a graphical user interface . These first and second computer systems can be configured in a server client peer to peer or some other configuration. The clients can vary in complexity from mobile and handheld devices to thin clients and on to thick clients or even other servers.

The above illustrated software components are tangibly stored on a computer readable storage medium as instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media that stores one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include any physical article that is capable of undergoing a set of physical changes to physically store encode or otherwise carry a set of instructions for execution by a computer system which causes the computer system to perform any of the methods or process steps described represented or illustrated herein. Examples of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROMs DVDs and holographic devices magneto optical media and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer readable instructions include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example an embodiment of the invention may be implemented using Java C or other object oriented programming language and development tools. Another embodiment of the invention may be implemented in hard wired circuitry in place of or in combination with machine readable software instructions.

A data source is an information resource. Data sources include sources of data that enable data storage and retrieval. Data sources may include databases such as relational transactional hierarchical multi dimensional e.g. OLAP object oriented databases and the like. Further data sources include tabular data e.g. spreadsheets delimited text files data tagged with a markup language e.g. XML data transactional data unstructured data e.g. text files screen scrapings hierarchical data e.g. data in a file system XML data files a plurality of reports and any other data source accessible through an established protocol such as Open DataBase Connectivity ODBC produced by an underlying software system e.g. ERP system and the like. Data sources may also include a data source where the data is not tangibly stored or otherwise ephemeral such as data streams broadcast data and the like. These data sources can include associated data foundations semantic layers management systems security systems and so on.

In the above description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components techniques etc. In other instances well known operations or structures are not shown or described in details to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Although the processes illustrated and described herein include series of steps it will be appreciated that the different embodiments of the present invention are not limited by the illustrated ordering of steps as some steps may occur in different orders some concurrently with other steps apart from that shown and described herein. In addition not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the present invention. Moreover it will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented in association with the apparatus and systems illustrated and described herein as well as in association with other systems not illustrated.

The above descriptions and illustrations of embodiments of the invention including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for the invention are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. These modifications can be made to the invention in light of the above detailed description. Rather the scope of the invention is to be determined by the following claims which are to be interpreted in accordance with established doctrines of claim construction.

