---

title: Application migration between clouds
abstract: Embodiments described herein are directed to reinitiating an application on a target computing cloud and to evaluating potential target cloud computing systems. In one scenario, a computing system receives an indication that identifies a target cloud for application migration. The target cloud computing system includes a specified set of hardware and/or environment specifications, associated configuration settings and an assigned rating that indicates how well the application will perform on the target cloud computing system. The computing system determines that the application is to be reconfigured for compatibility with the target cloud computing system and reconfigures some or all of the application to comply with the hardware and/or environment specifications and configuration settings of the target cloud computing system. The computing system also identifies and transfers specified portions of the application to the target cloud, and indicates that the application is to be re-instantiated using the transferred application portions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09444896&OS=09444896&RS=09444896
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09444896
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121205
---
Computers have become highly integrated in the workforce in the home in mobile devices and many other places. Computers can process massive amounts of information quickly and efficiently. Software applications designed to run on computer systems allow users to perform a wide variety of functions including business applications schoolwork entertainment and more. Software applications are often designed to perform specific tasks such as word processor applications for drafting documents or email programs for sending receiving and organizing email.

In some cases software applications are designed for operation in distributed environments. For instance applications may be designed so that one instance of the application runs on multiple different computer systems. Such applications may be said to be running on the cloud. These applications are typically designed to run on a specific cloud or set of computing systems. This set of computing systems typically has a specific set of rules and or settings that are used for all applications running on those systems.

Embodiments described herein are directed to reinitiating an application on a target computing cloud and to evaluating potential target cloud computing systems. In one embodiment a computing system receives an indication that identifies a target cloud computing system to which an application is to be migrated. The target cloud computing system includes a specified set of hardware specifications a set of environment settings and associated configuration settings and an assigned rating that indicates how well the application will perform on the target cloud computing system. The computing system determines based on the hardware specifications the environment settings and the configuration settings of the target cloud computing system that the application is to be reconfigured for compatibility with the target cloud computing system. Then based on the determination the computing system reconfigures some or all of the application to comply with the hardware specifications the environment settings and or the configuration settings of the target cloud computing system.

The computing system also identifies which portions of the application are to be transferred to the target cloud computing system based on the reconfiguration transfers the identified application portions to the target cloud computing system and indicates to the target cloud computing system that the application is to be re instantiated on the target cloud computing system using the transferred application portions. In cases where the computing system determines that equivalent application portions already exist on the target cloud computing system a mapping of existing data may be used as an alternative to transferring the already existing data.

In another embodiment a computing system evaluates potential target cloud computing systems. The computing system determines that various cloud computing systems are available for hosting an application and evaluates the potential cloud computing systems to determine which cloud computing system an application is to be migrated to. Each cloud computing system includes a specified set of hardware specifications a set of environment settings and associated configuration settings. The evaluation includes determining a service rating for each cloud computing system that indicates whether the application is hostable by the target cloud computing system and how well the application will perform on the target cloud computing system. The computing system also presents the available cloud computing systems to at least one user via a user interface where each cloud computing system is presented with its corresponding service rating as determined by the evaluation.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Additional features and advantages will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from the description or may be learned by the practice of the teachings herein. Features and advantages of embodiments described herein may be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. Features of the embodiments described herein will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims.

Embodiments described herein are directed to reinitiating an application on a target computing cloud and to evaluating potential target cloud computing systems. In one embodiment a computing system receives an indication that identifies a target cloud computing system to which an application is to be migrated. The target cloud computing system includes a specified set of hardware specifications a set of environment settings associated configuration settings and an assigned rating that indicates how well the application will perform on the target cloud computing system. The computing system determines based on the hardware specifications the environment settings and or the configuration settings of the target cloud computing system that the application is to be reconfigured for compatibility with the target cloud computing system. Then based on the determination the computing system reconfigures some or all of the application to comply with the hardware specifications the environment settings and or the configuration settings of the target cloud computing system. The computing system also identifies which portions of the application are to be transferred or mapped if the data already exists on the target cloud to the target cloud computing system based on the reconfiguration transfers the identified application portions to the target cloud computing system and indicates to the target cloud computing system that the application is to be re instantiated on the target cloud computing system using the transferred application portions.

In another embodiment a computing system evaluates potential target cloud computing systems. The computing system determines that various cloud computing systems are available for hosting an application and evaluates the potential cloud computing systems to determine which cloud computing system an application is to be migrated to. Each cloud computing system includes a specified set of hardware specifications a set of environment settings and associated configuration settings. The evaluation includes determining a service rating for each cloud computing system that indicates whether the application is hostable by the target cloud computing system and how well the application will perform on the target cloud computing system. The computing system also presents the available cloud computing systems to at least one user via a user interface where each cloud computing system is presented with its corresponding service rating as determined by the evaluation.

The following discussion now refers to a number of methods and method acts that may be performed. It should be noted that although the method acts may be discussed in a certain order or illustrated in a flow chart as occurring in a particular order no particular ordering is necessarily required unless specifically stated or required because an act is dependent on another act being completed prior to the act being performed.

Embodiments described herein may comprise or utilize a special purpose or general purpose computer including computer hardware such as for example one or more processors and system memory as discussed in greater detail below. Embodiments described herein also include physical and other computer readable media for carrying or storing computer executable instructions and or data structures. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer system. Computer readable media that store computer executable instructions in the form of data are computer storage media. Computer readable media that carry computer executable instructions are transmission media. Thus by way of example and not limitation embodiments described herein can comprise at least two distinctly different kinds of computer readable media computer storage media and transmission media.

Computer storage media includes RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM solid state drives SSDs that are based on RAM Flash memory phase change memory PCM or other types of memory or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions data or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer.

A network is defined as one or more data links and or data switches that enable the transport of electronic data between computer systems and or modules and or other electronic devices. When information is transferred or provided over a network either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a transmission medium. Transmission media can include a network which can be used to carry data or desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or in the form of data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Further upon reaching various computer system components program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures can be transferred automatically from transmission media to computer storage media or vice versa . For example computer executable instructions or data structures received over a network or data link can be buffered in RAM within a network interface module e.g. a network interface card or NIC and then eventually transferred to computer system RAM and or to less volatile computer storage media at a computer system. Thus it should be understood that computer storage media can be included in computer system components that also or even primarily utilize transmission media.

Computer executable or computer interpretable instructions comprise for example instructions which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. The computer executable instructions may be for example binaries intermediate format instructions such as assembly language or even source code. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the described features or acts described above. Rather the described features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various embodiments may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including personal computers desktop computers laptop computers message processors hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers mobile telephones PDAs tablets pagers routers switches and the like. Embodiments described herein may also be practiced in distributed system environments where local and remote computer systems that are linked either by hardwired data links wireless data links or by a combination of hardwired and wireless data links through a network each perform tasks e.g. cloud computing cloud services and the like . In a distributed system environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

In this description and the following claims cloud computing is defined as a model for enabling on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks servers storage applications and services . The definition of cloud computing is not limited to any of the other numerous advantages that can be obtained from such a model when properly deployed.

For instance cloud computing is currently employed in the marketplace so as to offer ubiquitous and convenient on demand access to the shared pool of configurable computing resources. Furthermore the shared pool of configurable computing resources can be rapidly provisioned via virtualization and released with low management effort or service provider interaction and then scaled accordingly.

A cloud computing model can be composed of various characteristics such as on demand self service broad network access resource pooling rapid elasticity measured service and so forth. A cloud computing model may also come in the form of various service models such as for example Software as a Service SaaS Platform as a Service PaaS and Infrastructure as a Service IaaS . The cloud computing model may also be deployed using different deployment models such as private cloud community cloud public cloud hybrid cloud and so forth. In this description and in the claims a cloud computing environment is an environment in which cloud computing is employed.

Additionally or alternatively the functionally described herein can be performed at least in part by one or more hardware logic components. For example and without limitation illustrative types of hardware logic components that can be used include Field programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Program specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Program specific Standard Products ASSPs System on a chip systems SOCs Complex Programmable Logic Devices CPLDs and other types of programmable hardware.

Still further system architectures described herein can include a plurality of independent components that each contribute to the functionality of the system as a whole. This modularity allows for increased flexibility when approaching issues of platform scalability and to this end provides a variety of advantages. System complexity and growth can be managed more easily through the use of smaller scale parts with limited functional scope. Platform fault tolerance is enhanced through the use of these loosely coupled modules. Individual components can be grown incrementally as business needs dictate. Modular development also translates to decreased time to market for new functionality. New functionality can be added or subtracted without impacting the core system.

It should be understood that application may include different types of data . The application may include application data used by the application during its execution. The application may also include metadata describing the application and or the virtual machine instance on which the application is running The application may further include state data indicate the current or previous stored application states. The application may further include configurations and settings that have been specified by a user or by an administrator such as a database connection string a certificate to use for encryption or a default error message. The application may be migrated to the target cloud in whole or in part. For example the application transferring module may transfer application portions which may include application data metadata and or state data it may include the entire application itself e.g. a word processing application or it may include a disk on which the application is running e.g. a virtual hard disk or a physical disk . Accordingly transferring an application may include application data the application itself e.g. binaries or the application s disk .

When the application is transferred to the target cloud e.g. A various configuration settings environment settings and hardware changes may be reconfigured for the new cloud. As such reconfiguration module may perform changes to application settings in order to allow the application to run on the target cloud. In other cases a similar application may already exist on the target cloud. In such cases similar components may be mapped by mapping module to existing components and only the difference in files may be transferred.

Applications may thus move from a source cloud to a destination cloud regardless of cloud type or differences in cloud hardware or environment settings. Reconfiguration module may apply changes that facilitate a smooth transition between clouds. Applications may be transferred from private clouds to public clouds from public to private clouds or from public to public clouds. Transferred applications may include those applications that span machine boundaries i.e. distributed applications . Transferred application portions include virtual disks metadata which defines the virtual machine instance e.g. virtual machine size network configurations services running within the virtual machine inter machine structure and other resources associated with the application e.g. backup or monitoring .

Regardless of the source or destination cloud type application migration may include the following steps assess convert map and fix up package and transfer and redeploy. In the assess step evaluation module of the computer system surveys each of the applications and clouds it manages and gathers two sets of information 1. Can the application be moved to another cloud and 2. Should the application be moved to another cloud Some platforms clouds offer more capabilities than the others. For example if an application requires two network adapters clouds which do not support configuration of more than one network adapter will be rated not applicable as a target cloud for that application. In this step the evaluation module may also determine whether the application can be deployed in more than one clouds it manages. The evaluation module also looks at whether an application might run faster cheaper or more securely in another cloud. Based on criteria set by users of the application such as cost performance geographic location etc. the evaluation module recommends the best cloud for the application. It can also automatically start the application s migration to the recommended cloud.

In the convert map and fix up step the computer system converts the virtual machine on which the application is running the application and associated settings or dependencies to the target cloud s format. The computer system then fixes up the application so it is ready to be reinitiated in the target cloud. If an equivalent resource exists in the target cloud that resource can be mapped to the migrated application so the dependencies don t need to be re transferred. Environment settings such as networking setting are mapped and the system fixes up the application if necessary. For example drivers applied to the application s current cloud which are no longer needed by the target cloud are disabled. Drivers needed for the target cloud are automatically installed. The computer system knows the capability of clouds it manages. As such it can recommend converted settings base on the original application settings. The computer system thus learns over time which settings are optimal and can perform better default application transfer and reconfiguration.

If a dependency which was transferred to the target cloud previously is referred again the computer system automatically defaults to the existing to be mapped to instead being transferred again. Templates may be generated for procedures that are performed repeatedly. The convert map and fix up step can be performed before the application is transferred to the target cloud or after the application has been transferred to the target cloud.

In the package and transfer step the computer system implements the application transferring module to move the selected or identified components of the application e.g. . Other processes such as de dupe compression or encryption may also be performed to make the transfer faster and more secure. In the redeploy step the reconfigured transferred application is then re instantiated on the target cloud using target cloud application programming interfaces APIs . These steps along with the other concepts mentioned above will be explained further below with regard to methods and of respectively.

In view of the systems and architectures described above methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flow charts of . For purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks. However it should be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.

Method includes an act of receiving an indication that identifies a target cloud computing system to which an application is to be migrated the target cloud computing system including a specified set of hardware specifications a set of environment settings one or more associated configuration settings and an assigned rating that indicates how well the application will perform on the target cloud computing system act . For example communication module may receive indication from user identifying a target cloud computing system e.g. target cloud B to which application or portions thereof is to be migrated.

Each target cloud includes a specified set of hardware specifications A B which may for instance include a number of processors an amount of RAM a number of network ports an amount of storage space or any other physical resource. The target clouds also include a set of environment settings A B which may include a network type or a domain name system DNS namespace or authentication type. The target clouds further include a set of configuration settings indicating how things are configured on that cloud. Private and public clouds may have different settings. Clouds provided by different vendors will likely have different configuration settings. Each cloud will thus have its own set of hardware environment and configuration settings. The target clouds will further have an assigned rating A B that indicates how well the application will run on that cloud. The assigned rating may be generated based on various criteria including security reliability price energy savings and or other criteria. The target cloud computing systems are evaluated using the criteria to determine an optimal target cloud on which the application is to be reinitiated. The evaluation of target clouds will be explained in greater detail below with regard to method of .

Method further includes an act of determining based on the hardware specifications the environment settings and or the configuration settings of the target cloud computing system that the application is to be reconfigured for compatibility with the target cloud computing system act . Thus computer system may look at the hardware environment and configuration setting differences between the application s current host cloud and the selected target cloud e.g. A and determine that the application is to be reconfigured in order to be compatible with the selected target cloud. Then based on the determination one or more portions of the application are reconfigured by reconfiguration module to comply with the hardware specifications the environment settings and or the configuration settings of the target cloud computing system act . The reconfiguration may include changing configuration settings reallocating processors RAM network ports or other hardware to work as part of a new virtual machine in the target cloud. In cases where the application s disk is transferred a virtual machine on the target cloud may be instantiated or repurposed to run the virtual disk.

Method further includes an act of identifying which one or more portions of the application are to be transferred to the target cloud computing system based on the reconfiguration act . As mentioned above various components of the application may be transferred individually as a whole or as part of a virtual hard disk. Accordingly application may be transferred with each of the components needed to execute the application with the application data alone and or with the application s disk e.g. a virtual hard disk or a physical disk . These identified application portions are then transferred to the target cloud computing system act .

In some embodiments multiple applications may be reconfigured and reinitiated on the target cloud computing system simultaneously. One or all of these applications may be compressed and or encrypted for the transfer. In cases where two or more applications work together or where applications are dependent on each other these applications may be transferred together along with an indication of their dependencies. In cases where only application data is transferred the database storing the data virtual or otherwise may be transferred to the target cloud. When the application is transferred as a whole the current application state may be transferred with it. If the application is a virtual application the virtual application file itself may be transferred by the transferring module . When a virtual disk on which the application is running is transferred the container for the virtual disk may be transferred and reconfigured to run on the target cloud.

Method also includes an act of indicating to the target cloud computing system that the application is to be re instantiated on the target cloud computing system using the transferred application portions act . Thus communication module may indicate via to the selected target cloud computing system A B that the transferred application is to be re instantiated on the target cloud. In cases where the application or portions thereof already exist on the target cloud those application portions may be mapped instead of being transferred.

Mapping the application to an existing application on the target cloud computing system may include the following steps determining based on the hardware specifications the environment settings and or the configuration settings of the target cloud computing system that the application is to be mapped to one or more portions of an existing application on the target cloud computing system. Then based on the determination map the application to the one or more portions of the existing application on the target cloud computing system. Next identify which portions of the application are to be transferred to the target cloud computing system based on the mapping transfer the identified application portions to the target cloud computing system and indicate to the target cloud computing system that the application is to be re instantiated on the target cloud computing system using the mapped and transferred application portions.

In some cases previously used mappings e.g. stored mappings may be used to map the application to the one or more portions of the existing application on the target cloud computing system. The mappings may use names tags versions or other identifiers. The computer system may be configured to remember past mappings for each user and learn over time which mappings are to be used. The system may also remember mappings based on user preferences . User confirmed mappings may thus be used on subsequent application transfers for applications that are determined to be substantially similar. A library of stored mappings may be persisted on computer system including mappings used by individual users along with a global mappings library that is based on multiple different users mappings.

In cases where subsequent actions are to be performed to reinitiate the application on the target cloud computing system i.e. as part of fix up these actions may be performed to reinitiate the application on the target cloud computing system. These subsequent actions may include installing or removing drivers providing new internet protocol IP addresses or others. Thus in this manner applications or portions thereof may be transferred between different clouds whether the clouds are private or public are of different types or include different configurations. Evaluation of the target clouds will be described now with reference to .

Method includes an act of determining that one or more cloud computing systems are available for hosting an application act . For example as shown in three different target clouds may be available for hosting an application A B and C . It will be understood that substantially any number of target clouds may be used in the embodiments described herein.

Method next includes an act of evaluating the one or more cloud computing systems to determine which cloud computing system an application is to be migrated to each cloud computing system including a specified set of hardware specifications a set of environment settings and associated configuration settings the evaluation comprising determining a service rating for each cloud computing system that indicates whether the application is hostable by the target cloud computing system and how well the application will perform on the target cloud computing system act . The service rating may be determined based on the specified set of hardware specifications the environment settings the associated configuration settings of the cloud and or an identified workload resulting from the application that is to be reinitiated on the target cloud. For instance if one cloud has more processing resources or better network connections it may be prioritized over other clouds.

The application to be hosted by the cloud may be taken into account when evaluating the potential target clouds. The evaluation module may also use user preferences from user . The user preferences may indicate the relative importance of each of a plurality of hosting criteria. For instance as shown in a user may use slider bars or another input type to indicate how important security cost performance and reliability are to the user for that specific application. The user interface may show other criteria not shown in . In the embodiment shown in the user has indicated that cost is relatively more important than security for that application. For other applications the preferences may be different e.g. security may be prioritized above all other criteria . Thus based on both the user s preferences and the application that is to be hosted i.e. the workload caused by the application the evaluation module assigns a star or other rating to each potential target cloud. For the specific application shown in target cloud C has the highest rating four stars indicating that it is best suited to hosting the application based on the user s preferences and the workload of the application.

Accordingly the evaluation module may make two determinations 1 should the application be moved i.e. is there a better cloud more suited to this application and 2 which target cloud is best suited to host the application. In some embodiments the potential target clouds may not have each of the criteria the user is looking for e.g. not as much processing power or not as much security . As such the user may be asked to compromise on a target cloud and may be shown an indication of which clouds fit most of the user s preferences and which preferences would not be met by each of the clouds. The user may also be shown via the user interface which alternate clouds may be used to host their application.

Method further includes an act of presenting the available cloud computing systems to one or more users via a user interface each cloud computing system being presented with its corresponding service rating as determined by the evaluation act . Thus user interface may show the various potential target clouds A C to the user along with their assigned ratings. The rating may change as time moves along. For instance one of the potential target clouds may stop hosting another application thus freeing up some of its resources. As a result the evaluation module may re evaluate the cloud and raise or lower its rating accordingly.

Accordingly methods systems and computer program products are provided which migrate and reinitiate an application on a target computing cloud. Moreover methods systems and computer program products are provided which evaluate potential target cloud computing systems and assign them ratings based on which is most able to host the user s application.

The concepts and features described herein may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from their spirit or descriptive characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the disclosure is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

