---

title: System and method for event-based trading
abstract: A system and method for news-based trading are developed. According to one method, a trader can pre-define a trading strategy including a number of trading rules to be applied based on a comparison of one or more estimated event values to the respective actual event values to be released at some later time. The example method further includes, upon receiving one or more actual event values via a user input or directly from outside sources, executing one or more predefined trading rules selected based on the comparison of the received actual event values to the respective estimated indicator values.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08738504&OS=08738504&RS=08738504
owner: Trading Technologies International, Inc.
number: 08738504
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120515
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 272 617 filed on Oct. 13 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 229 842 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 764 686 filed Apr. 21 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 065 222 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 734 862 filed on Dec. 12 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 734 528 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present invention is directed towards electronic trading. More specifically the present invention is directed towards automatically executing predefined trading rules upon detecting announcements of economic indicators and or other news related data associated with the trading strategies.

In recent years a trend towards electronic trading has become well established causing one major exchange after another to replace or at least supplement the traditional open outcry where a trade is done face to face with automated electronic systems which automatically match bids and offers. While the motivation behind using electronic trading may vary from market to market greater efficiency and volume are some of the considerations.

In particular subscribing traders are connected to an exchange s electronic trading platform by way of a communication link and through an application program interface to facilitate real time electronic messaging between themselves and the exchange. The electronic messaging includes market information that is sent from the electronic market to the traders. Market information commonly includes information regarding the inside market and market depth. The inside market is the lowest sell price in the market and the highest buy price in the market at a particular point in time. Market depth refers to quantities available at the inside market and may also refer to quantities available at other prices away from the inside market. The quantity available at a given price level is usually provided by the host exchange in aggregate sums. In other words a host exchange usually provides the total buy or the total sell quantity available in the market at a particular price level in its data feed. The extent of the market depth available to a trader usually depends on the host exchange. For instance some host exchanges provide market depth for all or many price levels while some provide only quantities associated with the inside market and others may provide no market depth at all.

Additionally the host exchange can offer other types of market information such as the last traded price LTP or the last traded quantity LTQ .

Just as with an open outcry exchange an electronic exchange can list any number of tradeable objects. Often times traders will simultaneously trade more than one tradeable object and they may simultaneously trade tradeable objects that are listed at more than one exchange. Ordinarily each tradeable object has its own separate stream of market information. Therefore in these instances the traders will generally receive more than one stream of market information such that each stream of market information attempts to characterize a given tradeable object.

Once the traders receive market information the market information may be displayed to them on their trading screens. Upon viewing the information traders may take certain actions including the actions of sending buy or sell orders to the electronic market adjusting existing orders deleting orders or otherwise managing orders. In general traders may use trading screens to enter orders into the market as well as to obtain and view market information. Traders may also use software tools on their client devices to automate these and additional actions.

Generally when a trader submits an order to a host exchange the host checks the conditions associated with the order for example price and quantity and prioritizes the order with other orders at the same price. When the order conditions are satisfied a trade occurs and trade information is then relayed in some fashion to one or more client devices so that the traders can have access to the most current market information.

To profit in today s rapidly moving markets traders must be able to react more quickly and assimilate enormous amounts of data. For example before making any trades a trader may have to quickly assimilate and analyze many different types of data such as market data world news or business news. Additionally every week different departments of the U.S. government professional organizations and academic institutions issue dozens of economic statistics and indicators. Such reports often serve as useful tools that allow one to assess the overall strength and the likely direction of the economy. These indicators can also have a significant impact on the markets and can move the markets immensely on any given day. Therefore many traders watch economic report announcements very closely and many of them try to take advantage of the quick market changes that are caused by the announcements of some numbers while others try to limit their losses to the possible minimum by attempting to delete any of their pending orders for example.

Thus it is desirable for electronic trading applications to offer tools that can assist traders in trading in an electronic trading environment help them in making profitable trades in a speedy and accurate manner while allowing the traders to effectively monitor and use the economic reports as well as other news announcements to their advantage.

According to the preferred embodiments a system and method are described herein for event based trading. In the embodiments described hereinafter the events will be described in terms of any news related indicators such as unemployment number values interest rates values and others. According to one method a trader can predefine a trading strategy including a number of trading rules to be applied based on a comparison of an estimated news related indicator value to an actual news related indicator value to be announced at some later time. Once the trader defines the trading rules the method further includes receiving the actual news related indicator value and then responsively selecting the appropriate trading rules and automatically executing the selected trading rules. In one embodiment the value of the actual indicator value can be received directly from a user who may input the value via a graphical interface. Alternatively the actual indicator value can be received directly from outside news sources.

While the present invention is described herein with reference to illustrative embodiments for particular applications it should be understood that the present invention is not limited thereto. Those having ordinary skill of art will recognize that many additional modifications and embodiments are possible as well.

To receive news related data a trader at the client device may subscribe to one or more news services to receive news feeds from providers such as Bloomberg and Reuters and or the trader might subscribe to real time quotation vendors that provide information to traders for decision support. However it should be understood that traders could subscribe to other news and information sources all of which are collectively referred to as news data. Also it should be understood that the client device may receive news data directly from the news sources or via any intermediate devices such as the gateway for example.

Although each referenced component in is described directly below in their respective sections it should be understood that the components may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. Furthermore some of the components of may take the form of a computer readable medium having a computer readable program code means embodied in a storage medium. Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized including hard disks CD ROMS optical storage devices or magnetic storage devices. Also it should be understood that the preferred embodiment may be implemented on many other system configurations.

According to one example embodiment host exchange may include any exchange that matches orders electronically. Some example exchanges include the London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange LIFFE the Chicago Board of Trade CBOT the Chicago Mercantile Exchange CME the Exchange Electronic Trading Xetra a German stock exchange the European exchange Eurex Euronext or Island. Exchange might also refer to other known or later developed facilities that automatically match incoming orders that are received from client devices. The example exchanges and other exchanges are well known in the art.

Exchange allows traders to trade tradeable objects that exchange offers for trading. As used herein the tradeable object refers simply to anything that can be traded with a quantity and or price. It includes but is not limited to all types of tradeable objects such as financial products which can include for example stocks options bonds futures currency and warrants as well as funds derivatives and collections of the foregoing and all types of commodities such as grains energy and metals. The tradeable object may be real such as products that are listed by an exchange for trading or synthetic such as a combination of real products that is created by the user. A tradeable object could actually be a combination of tradeable objects such as a class of tradeable objects.

According to the preferred embodiments to keep participating traders informed of changes in a market exchange relays market information over a transmission channel to client device via gateway . Transmission channel can include any connection types being used by exchange such as a Ti line for example and the transmission channel can carry information in either analog or digital format. It should be understood that exchange could use a number of different communication protocols for connecting and sending market information to client devices. For example exchange can connect to client device via gateway using TCP IP and can provide market information using the Financial Information Exchange FIX protocol which is a messaging standard developed specifically for real time electronic exchange type transactions. FIX is a public domain specification owned and maintained by FIX Protocol Ltd.

Market information that exchange sends to client device via gateway may include data that represents just the inside market where the inside market is the lowest sell price best offer in the market and the highest buy price best bid in the market at a particular point in time. Market information may also include market depth where market depth refers to quantities available at the inside market and can also refer to quantities available at other prices away from the inside market. It should be understood that market information can also contain other types of market information such as the last traded price LTP or the last traded quantity LTQ . Additionally the market information that is sent to a single trader may include order and or fill information related to orders associated with that trader.

Once a trader submits an order to an exchange the exchange may process the order using different execution algorithms and the type of the algorithm used may depend on the tradeable object being traded. Some example order execution algorithms include first in first out FIFO and pro rata algorithms. The FIFO algorithm used for some tradeable objects listed with Eurex for example gives priority to the first person in an order queue at an exchange to place an order. The pro rata algorithm used for some tradeable objects listed with LIFFE for example splits orders for the same price and the orders at identical prices are filled in proportion to their size. Also it should be understood that the price order queue is a term that covers a broad range of systems used by an exchange to conduct orderly financial transactions such as for example a FIFO based system or a pro rata system. Also the present invention is not limited to any particular type of order execution algorithm and different algorithms could also be used.

According to the preferred embodiment gateway can be a computer running software that receives market information and order information from host exchange . As used herein a computer includes any device with memory and a processor capable of processing information to produce a desired result. Thus gateway can be a computer of any size such as a server workstation personal computer or laptop but generally gateway can be any computer device that has the processing capability to perform the function described herein. Also it should be understood that the functions of gateway could be moved to host exchange and or client device to reduce or eliminate the need for gateway .

In the preferred embodiment gateway receives market information as well as order related data from host exchange and forwards the received data to client device . In one embodiment while market information may be transmitted between exchange and client device using multicast transmission order related information such as order fills order requests or order modification requests are typically sent using unicast transmission. As known in the art while the multicast allows for communication between a single sender and multiple receivers in the network the unicast only allows for communication between a single sender and a single receiver. It should be understood that while there are many possible protocols that can be used to multicast and unicast information between exchange and client device via gateway the Pragmatic General Multicast PGM protocol could be used for multicasting and the Point to Point Protocol PPP could be used for unicasting for example.

Also as known by those skilled in the art gateway may have one or more servers to support data feeds that are received from exchange . In one embodiment gateway may include a price server for processing price information an order server for processing order information and a fill server for processing fill information. Generally a server is software that responds to commands from client device in form of subscription. That is a trader at client device can subscribe to price information order information and fill information for a particular tradeable object being offered at host exchange . In one embodiment the subscription may be established via a process of sending a number of messages between client device and gateway . For example gateway may first authenticate a trader at client device and then client device may establish separate communication links such as IP links to each server at gateway . In the embodiment illustrated in client device would establish three separate IP connections to three servers at gateway .

Price server order server and fill server receive information from exchange . According to a preferred embodiment price server may receive and process price information related to one or more tradeable objects being offered at exchange while order server may receive and process order related information. In one embodiment exchange may be connected to gateway using two communication links a first link between exchange and price server and a second link between exchange and order server . In such an embodiment a separate connection may exist between order server and fill server such that when the order information that is received at order server includes any fill related information order server may pass the fill data to fill server which may then process and send the fill data to client device . It should be understood that the gateway configuration described above is only one example and different implementations are possible as well.

Client device can be a computer such as a workstation desktop laptop handheld device and so forth that allow a trader to trade one or more tradeable objects that are offered at exchange . Client device may include at least processor and memory. The processor and memory which are both well known computer components are not shown in the Figure for sake of clarity. Preferably the processor has enough processing power to handle and process various types of market information. The more market information is received and processed the more processing power is preferred. However any present day processor has enough capability to perform at least the most basic part of the present invention.

Memory may include a computer readable medium. The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor unit for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage devices. Volatile media include for example dynamic memory such as main memory or random access memory RAM . Common forms of computer readable media include for example floppy disks flexible disks hard disks magnetic tape punch cards CD ROM or any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM and any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Client device can communicate with gateway via different networks such as Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN or a wireless network via a Virtual Private Network VPN for example or a combination thereof. Also gateway and client device can communicate order and market related information using any messaging protocols such as any proprietary messaging protocols. However it should be understood that different networks and different messaging protocols could also be used.

When client device receives market information and order related information from exchange the received information may be displayed to the trader s on the visual output device or display device of client device . However it should be understood that the information could be provided to a trader using other means such as sound. The output device can be any display device. For example the display could be a CRT based video display an LCD based or a gas plasma based flat panel display a display that shows three dimensional images or some other type of display.

Upon viewing the market information or a portion thereof a trader may wish to send orders to an exchange cancel orders change orders query an exchange and so on. To do so the trader may input various commands or signals into client device such as by typing into a keyboard inputting commands through a mouse or inputting commands or signals through some other input device. For instance a trader may click a mouse button to initiate an order to buy a particular quantity of the tradeable object at a particular price. Then client device preferably generates transaction information. There are many different types of messages and or order types that can be submitted all of which may be considered various types of transaction information. Once generated transaction information is sent from client device to host exchange over communication links.

In the preferred embodiment client device uses software to create specialized interactive trading screens on terminals associated with them. Trading screens preferably enable traders to among other things enter and execute orders obtain market quotes and monitor positions. The range and quality of features available to the trader on his or her trading screen may vary according to the specific software application being run. In addition to or in place of the interactive trading screens client device could run automated types of trading applications.

The preferred embodiment may be implemented on any type of trading screen therefore details regarding the trading screen are not necessary to understand the present invention. However in one embodiment one type of trading screen that can be used is provided by a commercially available trading application referred to as X TRADER from Trading Technologies International Inc. of Chicago Ill. X TRADER also provides an electronic trading interface referred to as MD Trader in which working orders and or bid and ask quantities are displayed in association with a static price axis or scale. Portions of the X TRADER and the MD Trader style display are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 772 132 entitled Click Based Trading With Intuitive Grid Display of Market Depth U.S. Pat. No. 7 127 424 entitled Click Based Trading With Intuitive Grid Display of Market Depth and Price Consolidation U.S. Pat. No. 7 389 268 entitled Trading Tools For Electronic Trading and U.S. Pat. No. 7 228 289 entitled A System and Method for Trading and Displaying Market Information in an Electronic Trading Environment the contents of each are incorporated herein by reference. However it should be understood that orders in the system illustrated in could also be placed using any other trading application as well. Additionally the preferred embodiments are not limited to any particular product that performs translation storage and display function.

The news trader application can implement the embodiments for automatic trading based on any trader defined news related events. It should be understood that the news related events can be based on any economic business or any other types of news related events that a trader may consider relevant to his her one or more trading strategies.

Preferably the trading application and the news trader application have access to market information through an application programming interface API and the trading application could also forward transaction information to the host exchange via the API . Additionally the trading application and the news trader application could receive economic indicator data or other news related data through the API from outside sources such as the news sources .

Additionally the trading application and the news trader application could receive signals from an input device via an input device interface and can be given the ability to send signals to a display device via a display device interface .

Every week and every month different departments of the U.S. government professional organizations and academic institutions issue a large number of economic statistics including economic performance indicators as well as other reports. Economic performance indicators are often drawn from annual or quarterly accounts and therefore provide a useful tool in assessing national economy such as its strength or weakness. Other indicators may be prepared based on specialized statistics such as monetary and governmental budget statistics. Regardless of the source of the economic indicators many of them have the ability to move markets. Some indicators or indexes such as employment indicators or a consumer feelings index on current and future spending plans are often referred to as top tier indicators indexes since they are closely watched by the majority of traders. Other indicators such as reports on wholesale sales may not get that much attention from the majority of traders and thus may have no impact on the markets. The embodiments described hereinafter will refer to using economic indicators as triggers for trading strategies. However it should be understood that the preferred embodiments are not limited to any specific economic indicators or indexes and may use other news related data such as releases from any governmental agencies including released of governmental hearing decisions national elections or any other events or any combination of events indicators that a trader may deem likely to influence the market movement or the trader s trading strategies.

The announcements of economic and other news related indicators are pretty much standardized such that for example traders know on what day and at what time certain indicators or reports will be announced. Also it is well known that announcements of many indicators may often involve a number of stages including an initial announcement of an estimated indicator value then an announcement of an actual indicator value and finally an announcement of a revised indicator value. It should be understood that while actual and revised indicator values may be released from actual sources responsible for releasing an indicator value the estimated indicator values may originate from other independent sources such as one or more economists predicting a certain indicator value. For example if an indicator is typically announced on June 1 at 8 a.m. a high low and mid estimated value for the indicator may be initially announced on May 1 at 8 a.m. and then can be further modified until June 1. Then on June 1 at 8 a.m. the actual value for the indicator will be announced. It should be understood that the actual indicator value could be later revised by announcing a revised indicator value to correct some miscalculations of the actual indicator value. In this example the revised indicator value could be revised some time in August.

Since news announcements can move markets and can significantly affect traders portfolios most traders watch them very closely and develop their trading strategies accordingly. Some traders simply refuse to risk any money and attempt to delete their orders before and or after announcements of certain news or reports that have historically proven to trigger unpredictable market movements. Other traders however may view some news releases as a great opportunity to implement their trading strategies and therefore often attempt to take advantage of the sudden market movements that are caused by announcements of certain indicators. According to the example embodiments that will be described in greater detail below a trader may automate the process of reacting to news releases by pre defining one or more trading strategies to be automatically executed upon detecting any user defined news releases.

Typically a trader tracks a host of indicators and develops his trading strategies using the numbers he sees. Many trading strategies are often based on a comparison of the actual indicator values at the time of their announcement to one or more earlier estimated indicator values. Therefore the trader s financial success in taking advantage of the market movements may depend on the trader s ability to quickly see the relative difference between the estimated indicator values compared to the actual indicator values at the time of their announcement and on the trader s ability to quickly and accurately implement trader s trading strategies upon the release of the actual indicator values. The example embodiments that will be described hereinafter enable a trader to easily configure and modify trading strategies in relation to one or more indicator values and quickly view a relative position of any newly released number compared to a group of estimated numbers for example.

According to the example embodiments a trader may define a plurality of trading strategies that can be automatically executed upon detecting one or more predefined indicator related triggers. In one embodiment the trader may do that using one or more graphical user interfaces GUI . For example before one or more actual values associated with the selected indicators are announced a trader could configure a set of trading rules based on one or more estimated indicator values. In such an embodiment when one or more actual numbers corresponding to the selected indicators are announced and received at the news trader application the news trader application could automatically execute one or more trading strategies selected based on the comparison of the actual indicator values to the respective estimated indicator values.

The receiving component may receive trading strategy requests from traders via a user input interface . According to one example embodiment a trader may input a number of trading rules to be used for a specific trading strategy. A trading rule may include one or more conditions and one or more actions to be taken when the conditions are satisfied or not satisfied depending on user configuration . According to one example embodiment a trading rule condition may take a format of any user configurable expression or equation including one or more variables relating to economic indicators or other news related data. For example the trading rule condition may be based on a difference between an estimated indicator value and an actual indicator value at the time when the actual indicator value is announced.

In addition to defining at least one condition for a trading rule a trader can also define one or more actions to be taken once the condition is satisfied. According to an example embodiment a trader may define many different market related actions to be taken once one or more conditions associated with a trading rule are satisfied. For example an action may include any market related request such as a request to send one or more buy or sell orders for predefined tradeable objects to one or more user specified exchanges adjusting order parameters deleting one or more orders or a combination thereof It should be understood that when a trader defines a request to submit an order to an exchange a trader may define a tradeable object for which the order should be placed one or more exchanges to which the order should be sent an order quantity an order price an order type a time when the order should be sent or cancelled or any other order related parameters.

Also it should be understood that some economic indicators can include a number of indicator components. In such an embodiment a graphical interface could be provided to enable a trader to select which indicator components the trader wishes to use as conditions for his trading strategy and which indicator components the trader wishes to eliminate. Also a trader could assign different weights to the indicator components such that some components would be given a higher weight than others. Alternatively different weights could be assigned to different actual indicator values. In such an embodiment for example upon receiving data related to one or more components associated with trading rules the news trading application could initially determine a weight assigned to each component based on the received indicator values and then may sum the weights to determine a composite weight value. Then the news trading application could select a trading strategy based on the composite weight value. It should be understood that the same method for determining a trading strategy based on adding weight values is not limited to indicator components and the same method could also be applied to the main indicators corresponding to a trading strategy.

In addition to receiving trading strategies the receiving component could also receive economic indicator and other news related data. In one embodiment such data may be received directly from outside sources . Alternatively a trader could monitor a set of indicators and input indicator values via the user input interface the embodiments of which will be described in greater detail below.

When a trader sets up a number of trading rules to be applied in response to detecting one or more indicator types and indicator values the indicator processing component may start monitoring data associated with the indicators specified in relation to the defined trading rules. Then when the indicator processing component detects that the conditions associated with a specific trading strategy are satisfied the action taking component may take certain actions specified for the detected conditions. For example the action taking component may send a request to the trading application to automatically submit one or more orders on the trader s behalf. Also when the news trader application receives any actual values or revised values associated with one or more indicators the action taking component may display the received data via an output interface .

At step the receive component receives an estimated value associated with an economic indicator. In one embodiment a trader may input the estimated value associated with the indicator using the user input interface . Alternatively the estimated value may be received from any outside source selected by the trader. It should be understood that the method is not limited to using a single indicator and more than one indicator could also be used.

At step the action taking component may initiate the process of displaying the estimated value associated with the economic indicator on a graphical interface at a client device. Then at step the trader may define at least one trading strategy based on one or more indicators. As mentioned earlier the trader may define a number of trading rules to be automatically executed upon detecting an announcement of an actual value for each indicator specified in relation to the trading strategy. Each trading rule as described above may be associated with at least one condition and the condition may be based on a comparison of an actual value to be received for a specific indicator compared to the estimated value specified for that indicator. However it should be understood that similar rules could be defined based on a comparison of a revised indicator value and an actual indicator value. Also as mentioned earlier trading rules could be defined based on trader s predictions or some other news releases.

At step the indicator receive component receives the actual value associated with the economic indicator. At step the indicator processing component selects one of the trading strategies based on a comparison of the actual indicator value to the estimated indicator value. It should be understood that when a trading strategy includes a plurality of conditions associated with different indicators or news related data the action taking component may trigger the execution of the trading strategy once all conditions are satisfied.

The news trader interface includes two window interfaces and that display in a wrapping vertical bar one or more values for a selected indicator such as an unemployment number for example. It should be understood that the graphical interface in illustrates only one example embodiment and different displays or layouts could also be used. For example the interfaces could display one or more horizontal bars with values wrapping around in any user defined direction. According to the embodiment illustrated in a trader may define three estimated event values referred hereinafter as estimated indicator values such as estimated high low and average values for an indicator via a set up window not shown which may be activated by selecting a setup icon . Additionally the trader could use the set up window to enter a time and day for the occurrence of the actual indicator such as 11 CST every first Friday of the month . When the trader closes the set up window the window interface can display the estimated values for the indicator. More specifically as shown in the display window displays three estimated indicator values including an average indicator value of 0.4 at a high estimated indicator value of 0.8 at and a low estimated indicator value of 1.4 at . The interface also displays a time such as 9 00 CST at when the actual number will be announced. In addition to displaying the time when the number is to be announced the window interface could also display a clock specifying the time left until the number announcement. Alternatively the clock could define time since the number has been announced. In such an embodiment the window displaying the time may be color coded to distinguish between the time left until the indicator release and the time passed since the indicator release. For example red could be used to define time left until the indicator release and blue could be used to define time passed since the indicator release.

In one embodiment when the actual number associated with the indicator is announced the trader may input the value associated with the announced indicator via the window interface by simply selecting the value corresponding to the number. When the trader selects the actual indicator value it may be displayed via the window interface . It should be understood that the values associated with different categories of indicators such as estimated and actual indicator values could be color coded such that a trader can easily distinguish between the two categories. For example once the actual value associated with the indicator is input by a trader the window interface may display the actual value such as 1.1 at in relation to the estimated indicator values.

Also a number of news trading applications being used by a plurality of traders can be networked together to allow communication of indicator data between the traders. In such an embodiment when one of the networked traders inputs an actual value corresponding to an indicator being monitored or used by one or more other traders in the group the news trader application corresponding to the trader who input the data may automatically send the received actual indicator value to all other traders in the group using that indicator as part of their trading strategy for example. It should be understood that the ability to input and automatically distribute indicator data may be limited to system administrators for example.

Using the window interface a trader could also enter a revised value for the last month s actual indicator value. In such an embodiment while the window interface can display estimated and actual values for an unemployment number for the month of October for example the revised value entered via the window interface will correspond to the revised value of the actual unemployment number for the month of September such as 0.9 shown at . The window interface could also display the last month s actual indicator value such as 1.0 at . It should be understood that when the trader enters the actual value for an indicator associated with a predefined trading strategy the user input may dynamically trigger the execution of the trading strategy that is based on that actual indicator value. Also it should be understood that while the embodiments described in relation to the graphical interface refer to a trader entering estimated actual and revised indicator values alternatively these numbers may be directly received in one or more predefined formats from outside sources selected by the trader. In such an embodiment when the news trading application receives indicator data from outside sources the news trading application may automatically display the received indicators via the window interfaces and may dynamically execute any trading strategies that are triggered based on the received indicator values.

More specifically is a block diagram illustrating a graphical interface for displaying estimated indicator values and trading strategies in relation to an axis of values. The graphical interface illustrates three icons associated with estimated indicator values including a low estimated indicator value of 1.4 an average estimated indicator value of 0.4 and a high estimated indicator value of 0.8. In one embodiment the interface could initially display one or more icons that a trader could simply position at locations corresponding to desired estimated indicator values. In such an embodiment a trader could easily and quickly modify estimated indicator values by simply dragging the icons to desired locations on the interface . In addition to displaying the estimated indicator values the interface displays a number of trading rules icons corresponding to trading rules to be automatically executed upon detecting an actual indicator value being in one of the predefined ranges. It should be understood that trading rule icons could also be moved in relation to the axis such that a range of estimated indicator values corresponding to the rule is modified based on repositioning of the indicators. For example as shown in if an actual indicator value is between endpoints 0.8 and 1.2 the action taking component of the news trading application may automatically submit an order to Buy 10 contracts corresponding to the tradeable object ESDec 03. Similarly for example if an actual indicator value is between endpoints 0.9 and 1.4 the action taking component may automatically submit an order to Sell 5 contracts corresponding to the tradeable object NQ Dec03. It should be understood that a trader can specify whether a trading strategy includes endpoints.

Also the trading rules illustrated in are only example rules and more complicated trading strategies could be defined as well. In one embodiment the trading strategies may be input by a trader using a graphical interface that the trader could activate by simply clicking on any location within the interface . Also it should be understood that a trader could define a specific time when the action taking component should execute the trading rules. In one embodiment the news trader application could execute a trading rule when all conditions triggering the trading rule are satisfied. Alternatively a trader could define a specific time after a trading rule is triggered when the news trader application should execute the trading rule. Those skilled in the art will understand that many different rule configurations are possible as well.

The interface also displays a number of trading rules for the tradeable objects ESDec03 at and NQDec03 at . The activation of the trading rules as shown in may depend on detecting one or more conditions associated with estimated indicator values specified for the trading rules. For example upon detecting that an actual indicator value is at 1.75 the news trader application can submit an order to sell 50 lots for the tradeable object ESDec03 and an order to sell 25 lots for the tradeable object NQ Dec03. Similarly if the actual indicator value turns out to be 1.25 no action will be taken in relation to the ESDec03 tradeable object and the news trader application can delete all orders D.A as shown in associated with the tradeable object NQ Dec03. It should be understood that a trader could set up trading rules using another interface that the trader could activate by simply selecting a cell corresponding to one or more estimated indicator values. Alternatively another interface could be provided to allow a trader to select and drag into the interface tradeable objects in relation to which the trader could define a number of trading strategies. Also it should be understood that while each cell corresponding to a specific indicator value level displays only a total quantity and an action to be taken at that level a trader could simply select the cell to view or modify any parameters related to the trading rule.

In one embodiment a trader could preconfigure a large number of trading strategies for many tradeable objects. However rather than applying all preset strategies whenever conditions for the strategies are satisfied a trader could activate or deactivate which strategies should be used by simply selecting activation boxes displayed in relation to each tradeable object. Also it should be understood that rather than using actual indicator values a trader could also select revised indicator values as conditions for the trading strategies. To do that the trader could simply select one of the boxes corresponding to the actual or revised indicator values.

A countdown clock now indicates the time of 7 seconds since the release of the actual indicator value. Also the interface displays the actual A indicator value of 0.1 in relation to the average high and low estimated indicator values at . In one embodiment once the actual indicator value is detected the interface can highlight a trading strategy selected based on the actual indicator value. In the embodiment illustrated in the trading rules to sell 25 lots of the tradeable object EDec03 as shown at and to buy 15 lots of the tradeable object NQ Dec03 as shown at correspond to the actual indicator value of 0.1. It should be understood that the interface could also use different colors or different indicators to distinguish between different stages of execution of the trading strategy. For example one color or an indicator could be selected to represent an action of sending one or more orders to an exchange and different colors or indicators could be used to represent different stages of executing the trading strategy such as detecting fills for the submitted orders. Also the interface may illustrate previous and revised indicator values corresponding to the last announcement periods such as the last week month or quarter for example.

The above description of the preferred embodiments alternative embodiments and specific examples are given by way of illustration and should not be viewed as limiting. Further many changes and modifications within the scope of the present embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit thereof and the present invention includes such changes and modifications.

It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that methods involved in the system and method for event driven virtual workspace in an electronic trading environment may be embodied in a computer program product that includes one or more computer readable media. For example a computer readable medium can include a readable memory device such as a hard drive device CD ROM a DVD ROM or a computer diskette having computer readable program code segments stored thereon. The computer readable medium can also include a communications or transmission medium such as a bus or a communication link either optical wired or wireless having program code segments carried thereon as digital or analog data signals.

The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. Therefore all embodiments that come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention.

