---

title: Activation and transfer cascade for ubiquitin
abstract: A novel activating enzyme for ubiquitin, Uba6, is provided. Compositions and methods for inhibiting ubiquitin via the Uba6 pathway are provided. Methods of identifying novel inhibitors of ubiquitination are also provided. Novel RNAi molecules are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08846360&OS=08846360&RS=08846360
owner: President and Fellows of Harvard College
number: 08846360
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120509
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 498 436 filed Jul. 7 2009 which is a continuation of PCT Application number PCT US2008 051312 filed Jan. 17 2008 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 946 757 filed Jun. 28 2007 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 885 431 filed Jan. 18 2007 each of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties for all purposes.

This invention was made with government support under National Institutes of Health grant numbers AG011085 and GM54137. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Protein turnover through the ubiquitin proteasome pathway UPP constitutes a major system used by cells to control signaling networks. In this process proteins are marked with a chain of ubiquitin molecules which are linked to the target and to each other through isopeptide linkages with lysine residues Pickart et al. 2004 1695 55 Pickart 2004 116 181 . Ubiquitin is a 76 amino acid protein which becomes linked to lysine residues through its C terminal glycine residue. Addition of four or more ubiquitin molecules is generally thought to be sufficient for recognition by the proteasome where poly ubiquitinated proteins are degraded Lam et al. 2002 416 763 . Protein turnover through the UPP is known to regulate many diverse cellular functions and to be intimately linked to human disease Petroski and Deshaies 2005 6 9 . Several components of the ubiquitin system have been found to be mutated in cancer. Most frequently alterations in the UPP system can lead to inappropriate degradation of tumor suppressor and over expression of oncogenes thereby promoting uncontrolled proliferation Cardozo and Pagano 2004 5 739 . Defects in the UPP can also contribute to neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson s Disease and the like. While ubiquitination plays a critical role in targeted protein degradation it also plays important roles in controlling protein localization the function of membrane proteins endocytosis and other processes.

Protein ubiquitination is known to involve three major protein activities Hershko et al. 1983 258 8206 Ganoth et al. 1988 263 12412 . First ubiquitin is activated to form a high energy thiol ester bond with an E1 ubiquitin activating enzyme. This process initially involves formation of an ubiquitin adenylate with the C terminal glycine of ubiquitin G76 consuming one molecule of ATP followed by transfer of the G76 carboxylate to the active site cysteine to form a thiol ester Haas et al. 1982 257 10329 Haas et al. 1982 257 2543 . In the second step the E1 Ub thiol ester complex binds an E2 ubiquitin conjugating enzyme through the E1s C terminal E2 binding domain. Ubiquitin is then transferred from the active site cysteine in E1 to the active site cysteine in the E2 Pickart et al. 1985 260 1573. The E2 Ub complex then dissociates from the E1 where it can interact with E3 ubiquitin ligases to promote transfer of ubiquitin to lysine residues either in the substrate or on growing poly ubiquitin chains Eletr et al. 2005 12 933 . Thus the E1 enzyme plays a critical role in the ubiquitination process by allowing ubiquitin activation and facilitating ubiquitin transfer.

There is widespread interest in the use of UPP components as drug targets for disease. Indeed the first drug targeting the UPP VELCADE Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. Cambridge Mass. was approved by the FDA in 2003 Popat et al. 2006 7 1337 . VELCADE targets the 26S proteasome thereby blocking degradation of all proteins whose turnover requires the proteasome. VELCADE has proven useful for the treatment of multiple myeloma. Id. Its mode of action appears to rely on the enhanced sensitivity of certain types of cancer cells for proteasome activity possibly reflecting an increased requirement for the NF B pathway which relies on the proteasome. However proteasome inhibition is also potentially toxic to normal cells and therefore obtaining new drug targets with increased specificity would be useful.

The present invention is based in part on the surprising discovery of a novel ubiquitin activating enzyme Uba6. This discovery is particularly unexpected given the long standing dogma in the field that a single activating enzyme exists for ubiquitin. The enzymatic properties of Uba6 differ substantially from the classical ubiquitin activating enzyme Ube1 indicating that Uba6 plays biological roles that are distinct from Ube1. Because Uba6 employs ATP in its catalytic mechanism small molecule inhibitors that selectively inhibit the activity of Uba6 could be useful in controlling signaling pathways that depend specifically upon the activity of Uba6 in organisms such as humans.

In certain embodiments methods for inhibiting a Uba6 activity are provided. In certain aspects inhibition is achieved by contacting Uba6 with a compound that inhibits formation of a ubiquitin adenylate intermediate e.g. the compound binds an adenylation domain of Uba6 contacting Uba6 with a compound that inhibits thiol esterification of Uba6 or contacting Uba6 with a compound that inhibits transfer of ubiquitin to a ubiquitin conjugating enzyme e.g. the compound binds a Ubl domain of Uba6 . In certain aspects inhibition is performed in vitro e.g. using cell extracts or in vivo e.g. in a tissue culture cell or in an organism . In other aspects the ubiquitin conjugating enzyme is one or more of E2C E2D1 E2D2 E2D3 E2D4 E2E1 E2G E2S E2T and E2Z also referred to herein as Use1 .

In another embodiment a method for inhibiting ubiquitin activation including contacting Uba6 with a compound that inhibits a catalytic cysteine domain of Uba6 is provided. In certain aspects inhibition is performed in vitro e.g. cell extracts or in vivo e.g. in a tissue culture cell or in an organism .

In another embodiment a method of reducing a Uba6 activity in an organism in need thereof including administering to the organism one or more siRNAs complementary to a portion of a Uba6 mRNA is provided. In certain aspects the siRNA is an RNA sequence including one or more of SEQ ID NO 1 SEQ ID NO 2 and SEQ ID NO 3. In other aspects the portion of the Uba6 mRNA encodes a ThiF domain a catalytic cysteine domain an adenylate domain or a ubiquitin like domain. In still other aspects the organism is a human.

In another embodiment a method of reducing ubiquitination in an organism in need thereof including administering to the organism one or more compounds that inhibits one or more Uba6 activities in the organism is provided. In certain aspects the compound is an antibody or an siRNA. In other aspects the organism is a human.

In yet another embodiment a method of identifying a compound that inhibits charging of E2Z including providing a sample including E2Z and ubiquitin contacting the sample with the compound contacting the sample with Uba6 or a biologically active portion thereof and determining whether the ubiquitin is bound to the E2Z in the presence of the compound wherein the ubiquitin is not bound to the E2Z if the compound inhibits charging of E2Z is provided. In certain aspects the method further includes visualizing E2Z on an SDS PAGE gel.

In still another embodiment a method of identifying a compound that inhibits a Uba6 activity including providing a sample including a ubiquitin conjugating enzyme and ubiquitin contacting the sample with the compound contacting the sample with Uba6 or a biologically active portion thereof and determining whether the ubiquitin is bound to the ubiquitin conjugating enzyme in the presence of the compound wherein the ubiquitin is not bound to the ubiquitin conjugating enzyme if the compound inhibits the Uba6 activity is provided. In certain aspects the ubiquitin conjugating enzyme is selected from the group consisting of E2C E2D1 E2D2 E2D3 E2D4 E2E1 E2G E2S E2T and E2Z.

In yet another embodiment a method of identifying a compound that inhibits a Uba6 activity including providing a sample including ubiquitin contacting the sample with the compound contacting the sample with Uba6 or a biologically active portion thereof and determining whether the ubiquitin is bound to the Uba6 or the biologically active portion thereof in the presence of the compound wherein the ubiquitin is not bound to the Uba6 if the compound inhibits the Uba6 activity is provided. In certain aspects the ubiquitin is bound to the Uba6 or the biologically active portion thereof via thiol conjugation. In other aspects the ubiquitin is immobilized.

In another embodiment an RNA sequence having at least about 70 identity to a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO 1 SEQ ID NO 2 and SEQ ID NO 3 wherein the RNA sequence can inhibit a Uba6 activity is provided. In certain aspects the Uba6 activity is selected from one or more of ubiquitin activation ubiquitin adenylate intermediate formation ubiquitin thiol esterification ubiquitin transfer to a ubiquitin conjugating enzyme and or ubiquitination of a target polypeptide. In other aspects the RNA is siRNA.

In another embodiment an RNA sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO 1 SEQ ID NO 2 and SEQ ID NO 3 is provided. In certain aspects the RNA sequence can inhibit a Uba6 activity such as ubiquitin activation ubiquitin adenylate intermediate formation ubiquitin thiol esterification ubiquitin transfer to a ubiquitin conjugating enzyme and or ubiquitination of a target polypeptide. In other aspects the RNA is siRNA.

It is generally thought that Ube1 is the sole activating enzyme for ubiquitin encoded by the genomes of all eukaryotes. This conclusion is based on the presence of a single essential ubiquitin E1 in budding yeast and the finding that rodent tissue culture cells containing temperature sensitive mutations in Ube1 display cell cycle arrest phenotypes consistent with there being only a single gene Finley et al. 1984 37 43 Ciechanover et al. 1984 24 27 . As described further herein it has surprisingly been discovered that this dogma is incorrect and vertebrate organisms contain two distinct activating enzymes for ubiquitin. Without intending to be bound by theory this novel enzyme Uba6 promotes the conjugation of ubiquitin to ubiquitin conjugating enzymes e.g. E2s in a manner that appears to be distinct from Ube1. Accordingly Uba6 can have specific functions in the ubiquitin pathway and therefore is an important drug target.

The ubiquitin proteasome pathway UPP plays a central role in the turnover of many key regulatory proteins involved in transcription cell cycle progression and apoptosis all of which are important in disease states. See e.g. King et al. 1996 274 1652 Vorhees et al. 2003 9 6316 Adams et al. 2004 4 349. Accordingly targeting ubiquitin activating enzymes provides a unique opportunity to interfere with a variety of biochemical pathways important for maintaining the integrity of cell division and cell signaling. Ubiquitin activating enzymes such as Uba6 function at the first step of ubiquitin conjugation pathways. Thus inhibition of a Uba6 enzyme should specifically modulate the downstream biological consequences of a ubiquitin modification. As such inhibition of these activating enzymes and the resultant inhibition of downstream effects of ubiquitin conjugation represents a method of interfering with the integrity of cell division cell signaling and several aspects of cellular physiology which are important for disease mechanisms. Thus ubiquitin activating enzymes such as Uba6 as regulators of diverse cellular functions are potentially important therapeutic targets for the identification of novel approaches to treatment of a variety of diseases and disorders i.e. ubiquitin related disorders .

In at least certain embodiments the Uba6 and or E2Z also referred to herein as Use 1 modulating agents described herein can be used in the treatment of cellular proliferative disorders e.g. cancer. The role of the UPP pathway in oncogenesis has led to the investigation of proteasome inhibition as a potential anticancer therapy. For example modulation of the UPP pathway by inhibition of the 26S proteasome by VELCADE has proven to be an effective treatment in certain cancers and is approved for the treatment of relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma.

Examples of proteins whose levels are controlled by the UPP pathway include the CDK inhibitor p27and the inhibitor of NF B I B. See Podust et al. 2000 97 4579 Read et al. 2000 20 2326 Inhibition of the degradation of p27 can block the progression of cells through the G1 and S phases of the cell cycle. Interfering with the degradation of I B can prevent the nuclear localization of NF B transcription of various NF B dependent genes associated with the malignant phenotype and resistance to standard cytotoxic therapies. NF B plays a key role in the expression of a number of pro inflammatory mediators implicating a role for such inhibitors in inflammatory disorders. Accordingly inhibition of UPP is useful for the treatment of inflammatory disorders including e.g. rheumatoid arthritis asthma multiple sclerosis psoriasis reperfusion injury and the like.

Inhibition of UPP is also useful for treatment of disorders such as neurodegenerative disorders including e.g. Parkinson s disease Alzheimer s disease triplet repeat disorders neuropathic pain ischemic disorders e.g. stroke infarction kidney disorders and cachexia. See e.g. Elliott and Ross 2001 116 637 Elliott et al. 2003 81 235 Tarlac and Storey 2003 74 406 Mori et al. 2005 31 53 Manning 2004 8 192 Dawson and Dawson 2003 302 819 Kukan 2004 55 3 Wojcik and DiNapoli 2004 35 1506 Lazarus et al. 1999 27 E332.

Treatment of cellular proliferative disorders is intended to include inhibition of proliferation including rapid proliferation. As used herein the term cellular proliferative disorder includes disorders characterized by undesirable or inappropriate proliferation of one or more subset s of cells in a multicellular organism. The term cancer refers to various types of malignant neoplasms most of which can invade surrounding tissues and may metastasize to different sites see for example PDR Medical Dictionary 1st edition 1995 . The terms neoplasm and tumor refer to an abnormal tissue that grows by cellular proliferation more rapidly than normal and continues to grow after the stimuli that initiated proliferation is removed see for example PDR Medical Dictionary 1st edition 1995 . Such abnormal tissue shows partial or complete lack of structural organization and functional coordination with the normal tissue which may be either benign i.e. benign tumor or malignant i.e. malignant tumor .

The language treatment of cellular proliferative disorders is intended to include the prevention of the growth of neoplasms in a subject or a reduction in the growth of pre existing cancers in a subject. The inhibition also can be the inhibition of the metastasis of a cancer from one site to another.

In certain embodiments the cancer is a solid tumor. Non limiting examples of solid tumors that can be treated by the methods of the invention include pancreatic cancer bladder cancer colorectal cancer breast cancer including metastatic breast cancer prostate cancer including androgen dependent and androgen independent prostate cancer renal cancer including e.g. metastatic renal cell carcinoma hepatocellular cancer lung cancer including e.g. non small cell lung cancer NSCLC bronchioloalveolar carcinoma BAC and adenocarcinoma of the lung ovarian cancer including e.g. progressive epithelial or primary peritoneal cancer cervical cancer gastric cancer esophageal cancer head and neck cancer including e.g. squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck melanoma neuroendocrine cancer including metastatic neuroendocrine tumors brain tumors including e.g. glioma anaplastic oligodendroglioma adult glioblastoma multiforme and adult anaplastic astrocytoma bone cancer soft tissue sarcoma and the like.

In certain other embodiments the cancer is a hematologic malignancy. Non limiting examples of hematologic malignancy include acute myeloid leukemia AML chronic myelogenous leukemia CML including accelerated CML and CML blast phase CML BP acute lymphoblastic leukemia ALL chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL Hodgkin s disease HD non Hodgkin s lymphoma NHL including follicular lymphoma and mantle cell lymphoma B cell lymphoma T cell lymphoma multiple myeloma MM Waldenstrom s macroglobulinemia myelodysplastic syndromes MDS including refractory anemia RA refractory anemia with ringed siderblasts RARS refractory anemia with excess blasts RAEB and RAEB in transformation RAEB T myeloproliferative syndromes and the like.

Cellular proliferative disorders can further include disorders associated with hyperproliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells such as proliferative cardiovascular disorders e.g. atherosclerosis and restinosis. Cellular proliferation disorders can also include disorders such as proliferative skin disorders e.g. X linked ichthyosis psoriasis atopic dermatitis allergic contact dermatitis epidermolytic hyperkeratosis and seborrheic dermatitis. Cellular proliferative disorders can further include disorders such as autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease ADPKD mastocystosis and cellular proliferation disorders caused by infectious agents such as viruses.

Compounds of the present invention include inhibitors of one or more ubiquitin activating enzyme activities. In particular the compounds are designed to be inhibitors of one or more Uba6 activities e.g. ubiquitin activation ubiquitin adenylate intermediate formation ubiquitin thiol esterification ubiquitin transfer to one or more ubiquitin conjugating enzymes e.g. E2s and or ubiquitination of one or more target polypeptides e.g. ubiquitin an E2 a target polypeptide and or protein or the like and or one or more E2Z activities e.g. ubiquitin activation ubiquitin adenylate intermediate formation ubiquitin thiol esterification ubiquitin transfer to one or more ubiquitin protein ligases e.g. E3s and or ubiquitination of one or more target polypeptides e.g. ubiquitin an E3 a target polypeptide and or protein or the like .

Inhibitors include but are not limited to compounds which modulate e.g. reduce the promoting effects of E1 enzymes in ubiquitin conjugation to target proteins e.g. reduction of ubiquitin activation and or facilitating ubiquitin transfer to E2 Inhibitors also include but are not limited to compounds which modulate e.g. reduce the promoting effects of E2Z enzymes in ubiquitin conjugation to target proteins e.g. reduction of ubiquitin activation and or facilitating ubiquitin transfer to E3 . Thus the compounds of this invention may be assayed for their ability to inhibit a Uba6 enzyme and or an E2Z enzyme in vitro or in vivo e.g. in cells or animal models according to methods provided in further detail herein or methods known in the art. The compounds may be assessed for their ability to bind or mediate a Uba6 enzyme and or an E2Z enzyme activity directly. Alternatively the activity of compounds may be assessed through indirect cellular assays or assays of downstream effects of Uba6 and or E2Z activation to assess inhibition of downstream effects of Uba6 inhibition. For example activity may be assessed by detection of ubiquitin conjugated substrates e.g. ubiquitin conjugated E2s ubiquitin conjugated E3s ubiquitinated substrates and the like detection of downstream protein substrate stabilization detection of inhibition of UPP activity and the like. Assays for assessing activities are described further herein and or are known in the art.

One embodiment of this invention relates to a composition comprising a compound described herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. It will be appreciated that the compounds of this invention may be derivatized at functional groups to provide prodrug derivatives which are capable of conversion back to the parent compounds in vivo. Examples of such prodrugs include the physiologically acceptable and metabolically labile ester derivatives such as methoxymethyl esters methylthiomethyl esters or pivaloyloxymethyl esters derived from a hydroxyl group of the compound or a carbamoyl moiety derived from an amino group of the compound. Additionally any physiologically acceptable equivalents of the present compounds similar to the metabolically labile esters or carbamates which are capable of producing the parent compounds described herein in vivo are within the scope of this invention.

If pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of the invention are utilized in these compositions the salts may be derived from inorganic or organic acids and bases. For reviews of suitable salts see e.g. Berge et al 1977 66 1 and Remington 20th Ed. ed. A. Gennaro Lippincott Williams Wilkins 2000.

As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is intended to include but is not limited to a material that is compatible with a recipient subject such as a mammal e.g. a human and is suitable for delivering an active agent to the target site without terminating the activity of the agent. The toxicity or adverse effects if any associated with the carrier preferably are commensurate with a reasonable risk benefit ratio for the intended use of the active agent.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can be manufactured by methods well known in the art such as conventional granulating mixing dissolving encapsulating lyophilizing or emulsifying processes among others. Compositions may be produced in various forms including granules precipitates or particulates powders including freeze dried rotary dried or spray dried powders amorphous powders tablets capsules syrup suppositories injections emulsions elixirs suspensions or solutions. Formulations may optionally contain stabilizers pH modifiers surfactants solubilizing agents bioavailability modifiers and combinations of these.

Pharmaceutical formulations may be prepared as liquid suspensions or solutions using a liquid such as but not limited to an oil water an alcohol and combinations of these. Solubilizing agents such as cyclodextrins may be included. Pharmaceutically suitable surfactants suspending agents or emulsifying agents may be added for oral or parenteral administration. Suspensions may include oils e.g. peanut oil sesame oil cottonseed oil corn oil olive oil and the like. Suspension preparations may also contain esters of fatty acids such as ethyl oleate isopropyl myristate fatty acid glycerides and acetylated fatty acid glycerides. Suspension formulations may include alcohols including but not limited to ethanol isopropyl alcohol hexadecyl alcohol glycerol and propylene glycol. Ethers including but not limited to poly ethyleneglycol petroleum hydrocarbons such as mineral oil and petrolatum and water may also be used in suspension formulations.

Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers that may be used in these compositions include but are not limited to ion exchangers alumina aluminum stearate lecithin serum proteins such as human serum albumin buffer substances such as phosphates and carbonates glycine sorbic acid potassium sorbate partial glyceride mixtures of saturated vegetable fatty acids water salts or electrolytes such as protamine sulfate disodium hydrogen phosphate potassium hydrogen phosphate sodium chloride zinc salts colloidal silica magnesium trisilicate polyvinyl pyrrolidone cellulose based substances polyethylene glycol sodium carboxymethylcellulose polyacrylates waxes polyethylene polyoxypropylene block polymers polyethylene glycol and wool fat.

According to certain embodiments the compositions of this invention are formulated for pharmaceutical administration to a mammal such as a human. Such pharmaceutical compositions may be administered orally parenterally by inhalation spray topically rectally nasally buccally vaginally or via an implanted reservoir. The term parenteral as used herein includes but is not limited to subcutaneous intravenous intraperitoneal intramuscular intra articular intra synovial intrasternal intrathecal intrahepatic intralesional and intracranial injection or infusion techniques. In certain aspects the compositions are administered orally intravenously or subcutaneously. The formulations of the invention may be designed to be short acting fast releasing or long acting. Still further compounds can be administered in a local rather than systemic means such as administration e.g. by injection at a tumor site.

Sterile injectable forms of the compositions described herein may be aqueous or oleaginous suspensions. These suspensions may be formulated according to techniques known in the art using suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent for example as a solution in 1 3 butanediol. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils are conventionally employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or di glycerides. Fatty acids such as oleic acid and its glyceride derivatives are useful in the preparation of injectables as are natural pharmaceutically acceptable oils such as olive oil or castor oil especially in their polyoxyethylated versions. These oil solutions or suspensions may also contain a long chain alcohol diluent or dispersant such as carboxymethyl cellulose or similar dispersing agents which are commonly used in the formulation of pharmaceutically acceptable dosage forms including emulsions and suspensions. Other commonly used surfactants such as Tweens and other emulsifying agents or bioavailability enhancers which are commonly used in the manufacture of pharmaceutically acceptable solid liquid or other dosage forms may also be used for the purposes of formulation. Compounds may be formulated for parenteral administration by injection such as by bolus injection or continuous infusion. A unit dosage form for injection may be in ampoules or in multi dose containers.

Pharmaceutical compositions may be orally administered in any orally acceptable dosage form including but not limited to capsules tablets aqueous suspensions or solutions. In the case of tablets for oral use carriers that are commonly used include lactose and corn starch. Lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate are also typically added. For oral administration in a capsule form useful diluents include lactose and dried cornstarch. When aqueous suspensions are required for oral use the active ingredient is combined with emulsifying and suspending agents. If desired certain sweetening flavoring or coloring agents may also be added.

Alternatively pharmaceutical compositions may be administered in the form of suppositories for rectal administration. These may be prepared by mixing the agent with a suitable non irritating excipient which is solid at room temperature but liquid at rectal temperature and therefore will melt in the rectum to release the drug. Such materials include cocoa butter beeswax and polyethylene glycols.

Pharmaceutical compositions of this invention may also be administered topically especially when the target of treatment includes areas or organs readily accessible by topical application including diseases of the eye the skin or the lower intestinal tract. Suitable topical formulations are readily prepared for each of these areas or organs.

Topical application for the lower intestinal tract may be effected in a rectal suppository formulation see above or in a suitable enema formulation. Topically transdermal patches may also be used. For topical applications the pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated in a suitable ointment containing the active component suspended or dissolved in one or more carriers. Carriers for topical administration of compounds described herein include but are not limited to mineral oil liquid petrolatum white petrolatum propylene glycol polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene compound emulsifying wax and water. Alternatively the pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated in a suitable lotion or cream containing the active components suspended or dissolved in one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. Suitable carriers include but are not limited to mineral oil sorbitan monostearate polysorbate 60 cetyl esters wax cetearyl alcohol 2 octyldodecanol benzyl alcohol and water.

For ophthalmic use the pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated as micronized suspensions in isotonic pH adjusted sterile saline or preferably as solutions in isotonic pH adjusted sterile saline either with our without a preservative such as benzylalkonium chloride. Alternatively for ophthalmic uses the pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated in an ointment such as petrolatum.

Pharmaceutical compositions may also be administered by nasal aerosol or inhalation. Such compositions are prepared according to techniques well known in the art of pharmaceutical formulation and may be prepared as solutions in saline employing benzyl alcohol or other suitable preservatives absorption promoters to enhance bioavailability fluorocarbons and or other conventional solubilizing or dispersing agents.

Pharmaceutical compositions described herein are particularly useful in therapeutic applications relating to disorders as described herein e.g. proliferation disorders e.g. cancers inflammatory disorders neurodegenerative disorders . In certain embodiments the composition is formulated for administration to a patient having or at risk of developing or experiencing a recurrence of the relevant disorder being treated. The term patient as used herein is intended to refer to an animal e.g. a mammal such as a human. In certain embodiments a pharmaceutical composition described herein may further comprise another therapeutic agent. The therapeutic agent can be one normally administered to patients with the disorder disease or condition being treated.

By therapeutically effective amount is meant an amount of compound or composition sufficient upon single or multiple dose administration to cause a detectable decrease in one or more Uba6 enzyme activities and or the severity of one or more disorders or disease states being treated. Therapeutically effective amount is also intended to include an amount sufficient to treat a cell prolong or prevent advancement of the disorder or disease state being treated e.g. prevent additional tumor growth of a cancer prevent additional inflammatory response ameliorate alleviate relieve or improve a subject s symptoms of the a disorder beyond that expected in the absence of such treatment.

The amount of a Uba6 enzyme modulator e.g. inhibitor required will depend on the particular compound of the composition given the type of disorder being treated the route of administration and the length of time required to treat the disorder. A therapeutically effective amount of compound i.e. an effective dosage can range from about 0.001 to 30 mg kg body weight about 0.01 to 25 mg kg body weight about 0.1 to 20 mg kg body weight about 1 to 10 mg kg 2 to 9 mg kg 3 to 8 mg kg 4 to 7 mg kg or 5 to 6 mg kg body weight. It should also be understood that a specific dosage and treatment regimen for any particular patient will depend upon a variety of factors including the activity of the specific compound employed the age body weight general health sex and diet of the patient time of administration rate of excretion drug combinations the judgment of the treating physician and the severity of the particular disease being treated. In certain aspects where the inhibitor is administered in combination with another agent the amount of additional therapeutic agent present in a composition typically will be no more than the amount that would normally be administered in a composition comprising that therapeutic agent as the only active agent. In certain aspects the amount of additional therapeutic agent will range from about 50 to about 100 of the amount normally present in a composition comprising that agent as the only therapeutically active agent.

One embodiment of the invention relates to a method of modulating e.g. inhibiting or decreasing one or more Uba6 enzyme activities in a sample comprising contacting the sample with one or more compounds and or compositions described herein. The sample can include without limitation a purified or partially purified Uba6 enzyme cultured cells or extracts of cell cultures biopsied cells or fluid obtained from a mammal or extracts thereof and one or more bodily fluids e.g. blood serum saliva urine feces semen tears breast milk and the like or extracts thereof. Inhibition of one or more Uba6 enzyme activities in a sample may be carried out in vitro in vivo or in situ.

In another embodiment method for treating a patient having one or more ubiquitin related disorders described herein one or more symptoms of one or more ubiquitin related disorders described herein and or at risk of developing or experiencing a recurrence of one or more ubiquitin related disorders described herein. Such methods comprise administering to the patient one or more compounds and or pharmaceutical composition described herein. As used herein the term treating is intended to include but is not limited to curing healing alleviating relieving altering remedying ameliorating palliating improving or affecting the disorder one or more symptoms of the disorder or the predisposition toward the disorder.

Depending on the particular disorder or condition to be treated one or more Uba6 enzyme inhibitors are administered in conjunction with additional therapeutic agent or agents. In certain embodiments the additional therapeutic agent is one that is normally administered to patients with the disorder or condition being treated. The one or more Uba6 inhibitors may be administered with the other therapeutic agent in a single dosage form or as a separate dosage form. When administered as a separate dosage form the other therapeutic agent may be administered prior to at the same time as or following administration of the one or more Uba6 inhibitors.

In certain embodiments the one or more Uba6 inhibitors are administered in conjunction with one or more therapeutic agents including but not limited to cytotoxic agents radiotherapy and immunotherapy appropriate for treatment of proliferative disorders and cancer. Non limiting examples of cytotoxic agents suitable for use in combination with the one or more Uba6 inhibitors include antimetabolites e.g. capecitibine gemcitabine 5 fluorouracil or 5 fluorouracil leucovorin fludarabine cytarabine mercaptopurine thioguanine pentostatin and methotrexate topoisomerase inhibitors e.g. etoposide teniposide camptothecin topotecan irinotecan doxorubicin and daunorubicin vinca alkaloids e.g. vincristine and vinblastin taxanes including e.g. paclitaxel and docetaxel platinum agents e.g. cisplatin carboplatin and oxaliplatin antibiotics e.g. actinomycin D bleomycin mitomycin C adriamycin daunorubicin idarubicin doxorubicin and pegylated liposomal doxorubicin alkylating agents e.g. melphalan chlorambucil busulfan thiotepa ifosfamide carmustine lomustine semustine streptozocin decarbazine and cyclophosphamide protein tyrosine kinase inhibitors e.g. imatinib mesylate and gefitinib proteasome inhibitors e.g. bortezomib thalidomide and related analogs antibodies e.g. trastuzumab rituximab cetuximab and bevacizumab mitoxantrone dexamethasone prednisone temozolomide and the like.

Other examples of agents the one or more Uba6 inhibitors may be combined with include anti inflammatory agents e.g. corticosteroids TNF blockers Il 1 RA azathioprine cyclophosphamide and sulfasalazine immunomodulatory and or immunosuppressive agents e.g. cyclosporine tacrolimus rapamycin mycophenolate mofetil interferons corticosteroids cyclophosphamide azathioprine methotrexate and sulfasalazine antibacterial and antiviral agents and agents for Alzheimer s treatment e.g. donepezil galantamine memantine and rivastigmine .

The invention provides methods also referred to herein as a screening assays for identifying modulators i.e. candidate or test compounds or agents e.g. peptides cyclic peptides peptidomimetics small molecules small organic molecules or other drugs which bind to one or more Uba6 enzymes or have a stimulatory or inhibitory effect on Uba6 expression or on one or more Uba6 activities.

As used herein the term small organic molecule refers to an organic molecule either naturally occurring or synthetic that has a molecular weight of more than about 25 daltons and less than about 3000 daltons preferably less than about 2500 daltons more preferably less than about 2000 daltons preferably between about 100 to about 1000 daltons more preferably between about 200 to about 500 daltons.

In one embodiment assays for screening candidate or test compounds which bind to or modulate the activity of Uba6 a Uba6 polypeptide or biologically active portion thereof E2Z or an E2Z polypeptide or biologically active portion thereof are provided. The test compounds can be obtained using any of the numerous approaches in combinatorial library methods known in the art including biological libraries spatially addressable parallel solid phase or solution phase libraries synthetic library methods requiring deconvolution the one bead one compound library method and synthetic library methods using affinity chromatography selection. The biological library approach is limited to peptide libraries while the other four approaches are applicable to peptide non peptide oligomer or small molecule libraries of compounds Lam K. S. 1997 12 145 .

Examples of methods for the synthesis of molecular libraries can be found in the art for example in DeWitt et al. 1993 90 6909 Erb et al. 1994 91 11422 Zuckermann et al. 1994 37 2678 Cho et al. 1993 261 1303 Carrell et al. 1994 33 2059 Carell et al. 1994 33 2061 and in Gallop et al. 1994 37 1233.

Libraries of compounds may be presented in solution e.g. Houghten 1992 13 412 or on beads Lam 1991 354 82 chips Fodor 1993 364 555 bacteria Ladner U.S. Pat. No. 5 223 409 spores Ladner U.S. Pat. No. 5 223 409 plasmids Cull et al. 1992 89 1865 or on phage Scott and Smith 1990 249 386 Devlin 1990 249 404 Cwirla et al. 1990 87 6378 Felici 1991 222 301 Ladner supra .

Examples of methods for introducing a molecular library of randomized nucleic acids into a population of cells can be found in the art for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 365 344. A molecular library of randomized nucleic acids can provide for the direct selection of candidate or test compounds with desired phenotypic effects. The general method can involve for instance expressing a molecular library of randomized nucleic acids in a plurality of cells each of the nucleic acids comprising a different nucleotide sequence screening for a cell of exhibiting a changed physiology in response to the presence in the cell of a candidate or test compound and detecting and isolating the cell and or candidate or test compound.

In one embodiment the introduced nucleic acids are randomized and expressed in the cells as a library of isolated randomized expression products which may be nucleic acids such as mRNA RNAi reagents antisense RNA siRNA ribozyme components etc. or peptides e.g. cyclic peptides . For example RNAi reagents include but are not limited to double stranded or hairpin sequences corresponding to the coding sequence of Uba6 e.g. a nucleic acid sequence corresponding to the cysteine 625 region of human Uba6 SEQ ID NO 5 e.g. the catalytic cysteine domain a nucleic acid sequence corresponding to amino acids 947 to 1052 of human Uba6 SEQ ID NO 5 e.g. the C terminal ubiquitin like Ubl domain an adenylate domain and or one or two ThiF domains . The library should provide a sufficiently structurally diverse population of randomized expression products to effect a probabilistically sufficient range of cellular responses to provide one or more cells exhibiting a desired response.

The introduced nucleic acids and resultant expression products are randomized meaning that each nucleic acid and peptide consists of essentially random nucleotides and amino acids respectively. The library may be fully random or biased e.g. in nucleotide residue frequency generally or per position. In other embodiments the nucleotides or residues are randomized within a defined class e.g. of hydrophobic amino acids of purines etc.

Functional and structural isolation of the randomized expression products may be accomplished by providing free i.e. not covalently coupled expression product though in some situations the expression product may be coupled to a functional group or fusion partner preferably a heterologous to the host cell or synthetic not native to any cell functional group or fusion partner. Exemplary groups or partners include but are not limited to signal sequences capable of constitutively localizing the expression product to a predetermined subcellular locale such as the Golgi endoplasmic reticulum nucleoli nucleus nuclear membrane mitochondria chloroplast secretory vesicles lysosome and the like binding sequences capable of binding the expression product to a predetermined protein while retaining bioactivity of the expression product sequences signaling selective degradation of itself or co bound proteins and secretory and membrane anchoring signals.

It may also be desirable to provide a partner which conformationally restricts the randomized expression product to more specifically define the number of structural conformations available to the cell. For example such a partner may be a synthetic presentation structure an artificial polypeptide capable of intracellularly presenting a randomized peptide as a conformation restricted domain. Generally such presentation structures comprise a first portion joined to the N terminal end of the randomized peptide and a second portion joined to the C terminal end of the peptide. Exemplary presentation structures maximize accessibility to the peptide by presenting it on an exterior loop for example of coiled coils Myszka and Chaiken 1994 33 2362 . To increase the functional isolation of the randomized expression product the presentation structures are selected or designed to have minimal biologically active as expressed in the target cell. In addition the presentation structures may be modified randomized and or matured to alter the presentation orientation of the randomized expression product. For example determinants at the base of the loop may be modified to slightly modify the internal loop peptide tertiary structure while maintaining the absolute amino acid identity. Other presentation structures include zinc finger domains loops on beta sheet turns and coiled coil stem structures in which non critical residues are randomized loop structures held together by cysteine bridges cyclic peptides etc.

In one embodiment an assay is a cell based assay in which a cell which expresses a Uba6 protein or biologically active portion thereof is contacted with a test compound and the ability of the test compound to modulate one or more Uba6 activities e.g. ubiquitin activation ubiquitin adenylate intermediate formation ubiquitin thiol esterification ubiquitin transfer to one or more ubiquitin conjugating enzymes e.g. E2s and or ubiquitination of one or more target polypeptides is determined. In another embodiment an assay is a cell based assay in which a cell which expresses a E2Z protein or biologically active portion thereof is contacted with a test compound and the ability of the test compound to modulate one or more E2Z activities e.g. ubiquitin activation ubiquitin adenylate intermediate formation ubiquitin thiol esterification ubiquitin transfer to one or more ubiquitin protein ligases e.g. E3s and or ubiquitination of one or more target polypeptides is determined.

Determining the ability of the test compound to modulate one or more Uba6 activities and or one or more E2Z activities can be accomplished by monitoring for example ubiquitin activation formation of a ubiquitin adenylate intermediate ubiquitin thiol esterification ubiquitin transfer to one or more ubiquitin conjugating enzymes ubiquitin transfer to one or more ubiquitin protein ligases and or ubiquitination of one or more target proteins or polypeptides using for example one or more of the assays described herein.

Determining the ability of the test compound to modulate one or more Uba6 and or E2Z activities can be accomplished for example by coupling Uba6 or a Uba6 substrate e.g. ubiquitin an E2 and or a target polypeptide or protein and or E2Z or an E2Z substrate e.g. ubiquitin an E3 and or a target polypeptide or protein with a radioisotope or enzymatic label such that alteration of Uba6 Uba6 substrate E2Z and or a E2Z substrate e.g. by ubiquitination thiol esterification ubiquitin adenylation or the like can be determined by detecting an alteration of the Uba6 Uba6 substrate E2Z and or a E2Z substrate e.g. altered mobility on an SDS PAGE gel . For example compounds can be labeled with I S C or H either directly or indirectly and the radioisotope detected by direct counting of radioemmission or by scintillation counting. Alternatively compounds can be enzymatically labeled with for example horseradish peroxidase alkaline phosphatase or luciferase and the enzymatic label detected by determination of conversion of an appropriate substrate to product.

It is also within the scope of this invention to determine the ability of a compound to interact with Uba6 and or E2Z without the labeling of any of the interactants. For example a microphysiometer can be used to detect the interaction of a compound with Uba6 and or E2Z without the labeling of either the compound or Uba6 and or E2Z McConnell H. M. et al. 1992 257 1906 . As used herein a microphysiometer e.g. Cytosensor is an analytical instrument that measures the rate at which a cell acidifies its environment using a light addressable potentiometric sensor LAPS . Changes in this acidification rate can be used as an indicator of the interaction between a compound and Uba6 and or E2Z.

In another embodiment an assay is a cell based assay comprising contacting a cell expressing Uba6 and or E2Z e.g. ubiquitin an E2 an E3 a target polypeptide or protein with a test compound and determining the ability of the test compound to modulate e.g. stimulate or inhibit the activity of Uba6 a Uba6 target molecule E2Z and or an E2Z target molecule. Determining the ability of the test compound to modulate the activity of Uba6 a Uba6 target molecule E2Z and or an E2Z target molecule can be accomplished for example by determining the ability of the Uba6 and or the E2Z to bind to modulate ubiquitin activation.

Determining the ability of Uba6 and or E2Z to modulate ubiquitin activation can be accomplished by one of the methods described above for determining direct binding. In an exemplary embodiment determining the ability of Uba6 and or E2Z to modulate ubiquitin activation can be accomplished by detecting one or more Uba6 and or E2Z activities e.g. ubiquitin activation ubiquitin adenylate intermediate formation ubiquitin thiol esterification ubiquitin transfer to one or more ubiquitin conjugating enzymes e.g. E2s ubiquitin transfer to one or more ubiquitin protein ligases e.g. E3s and or ubiquitination of one or more target polypeptides e.g. ubiquitin an E2 an E3 a target polypeptide and or protein or the like .

In yet another embodiment an assay of the present invention is a cell free assay in which Uba6 and or E2Z is contacted with a test compound and the ability of the test compound to bind to Uba6 and or E2Z or a biologically active portion of Uba6 and or E2Z is determined. Biologically active portions of Uba6 to be used in assays of the present invention include but are not limited to ThiF domains e.g. amino acids 50 200 and 460 600 of SEQ ID NO 5 for ThiF domain 1 and ThiF domain 2 respectively catalytic cysteine domains e.g. amino acid sequences including cysteine 625 of SEQ ID NO 5 adenylate domains e.g. amino acids 1 610 of SEQ ID NO 5 C terminal ubiquitin like Ubl domains e.g. amino acids 947 1052 of SEQ ID NO 5 and the like. Binding of the test compound to Uba6 and or E2Z can be determined either directly or indirectly as described above. In an exemplary embodiment the assay includes contacting Uba6 and or E2Z or biologically active portion of Uba6 and or E2Z with a known compound which binds Uba6 and or E2Z to form an assay mixture contacting the assay mixture with a test compound and determining the ability of the test compound to interact with Uba6 and or E2Z wherein determining the ability of the test compound to interact with Uba6 and or E2Z comprises determining the ability of the test compound to preferentially bind to Uba6 and or E2Z or a biologically active portion of Uba6 and or E2Z as compared to the known compound.

In another embodiment the assay is a cell free assay in which Uba6 and or E2Z or a biologically active portion of Uba6 and or E2Z is contacted with a test compound and the ability of the test compound to modulate e.g. stimulate or inhibit the activity of Uba6 and or E2Z or a biologically active portion of Uba6 and or E2Z is determined. Determining the ability of the test compound to modulate the activity of Uba6 and or E2Z can be accomplished for example by determining the ability of Uba6 and or E2Z to bind to a Uba6 and or an E2Z target molecule by one of the methods described above for determining direct binding. Determining the ability of Uba6 and or E2Z to bind to a Uba6 and or E2Z target molecule respectively can also be accomplished using a technology such as real time Biomolecular Interaction Analysis BIA Sjolander S and Urbaniczky C. 1991 63 2338 2345 and Szabo et al. 1995 5 699 705 . As used herein BIA is a technology for studying biospecific interactions in real time without labeling any of the interactants e.g. BIAcore . Changes in the optical phenomenon of surface plasmon resonance SPR can be used as an indication of real time reactions between biological molecules.

In yet another embodiment the cell free assay involves contacting Uba6 and or E2Z or a biologically active portion of Uba6 and or E2Z with a known compound which binds Uba6 and or E2Z respectively to form an assay mixture contacting the assay mixture with a test compound and determining the ability of the test compound to interact with Uba6 and or E2Z wherein determining the ability of the test compound to interact with Uba6 and or E2Z comprises determining the ability of Uba6 and or E2Z to preferentially bind to or modulate the activity of a Uba6 and or E2Z target molecule e.g. ubiquitin activation ubiquitin adenylate intermediate formation ubiquitin thiol esterification ubiquitin transfer to one or more ubiquitin conjugating enzymes e.g. E2s ubiquitin transfer to one or more ubiquitin protein ligases e.g. E3s and or ubiquitination of one or more target polypeptides e.g. ubiquitin an E2 an E3 a target polypeptide and or protein or the like and the like .

In more than one embodiment of the above assay methods of the present invention it may be desirable to immobilize either Uba6 a Uba6 target molecule E2Z and or an E2Z target molecule to facilitate separation of complexed from uncomplexed forms of one or both of the proteins as well as to accommodate automation of the assay. Binding of a test compound to Uba6 and or E2Z or interaction of Uba6 and or E2Z with one or more target molecules in the presence and absence of a candidate compound can be accomplished in any vessel suitable for containing the reactants. Examples of such vessels include microtitre plates test tubes and microfuge tubes. In one embodiment a fusion protein can be provided which adds a domain that allows one or both of the proteins to be bound to a matrix. For example glutathione S transferase Uba6 fusion proteins or glutathione S transferase target fusion proteins can be adsorbed onto glutathione sepharose beads Sigma St. Louis Mo. or glulathione derivatized microtitre plates which are then combined with the test compound or the test compound and either the non adsorbed target protein or Uba6 and the mixture incubated under conditions conducive to complex formation e.g. at physiological conditions for salt and pH . Following incubation the beads or microtitre plate wells are washed to remove any unbound components the matrix immobilized in the case of beads complex determined either directly or indirectly for example as described above. Alternatively the complexes can be dissociated from the matrix and the level of Uba6 binding or activity determined using standard techniques.

Other techniques for immobilizing proteins on matrices can also be used in the screening assays of the invention. For example Uba6 a Uba6 target molecule E2Z and or an E2Z target molecule can be immobilized utilizing conjugation of biotin and avidin or streptavidin. Biotinylated Uba6 and or E2Z or target molecules can be prepared from biotin NHS N hydroxy succinimide using techniques known in the art e.g. biotinylation kit Pierce Chemicals Rockford Ill. and immobilized in the wells of streptavidin coated 96 well plates Pierce . Alternatively antibodies reactive with Uba6 and or E2Z or target molecules that do not interfere with binding of Uba6 and or E2Z to its target molecule can be derivatized to the wells of the plate and unbound target or Uba6 and or E2Z trapped in the wells by antibody conjugation. Methods for detecting such complexes in addition to those described above for the GST immobilized complexes include immunodetection of complexes using antibodies reactive with Uba6 and or E2Z or one or more Uba6 and or E2Z target molecules as well as enzyme linked assays which rely on detecting an enzymatic activity associated with Uba6 and or E2Z.

In another embodiment modulators of Uba6 and or E2Z expression are identified in a method wherein a cell is contacted with a candidate compound and the expression of Uba6 protein Uba6 mRNA E2Z protein and or E2Z mRNA in the cell is determined. The level of Uba6 protein Uba6 mRNA E2Z protein and or E2Z mRNA in the presence of the candidate compound is compared to the level of Uba6 protein Uba6 mRNA E2Z protein and or E2Z mRNA in the absence of the candidate compound. The candidate compound can then be identified as a modulator of Uba6 and or E2Z protein expression and or Uba6 and or E2Z mRNA expression based on this comparison. For example when expression of Uba6 and or E2Z protein and or Uba6 and or E2Z mRNA is greater statistically significantly greater in the presence of the candidate compound than in its absence the candidate compound is identified as a stimulator of Uba6 and or E2Z protein expression and or Uba6 and or E2Z mRNA expression respectively. Alternatively when expression of Uba6 and or E2Z protein and or Uba6 and or E2Z mRNA is less statistically significantly less in the presence of the candidate compound than in its absence the candidate compound is identified as an inhibitor of Uba6 and or E2Z protein expression and or Uba6 and or E2Z mRNA expression respectively. The level of Uba6 and or E2Z mRNA or protein expression in the cells can be determined by methods described herein for detecting Uba6 and or E2Z mRNA or protein.

In yet another aspect of the invention Uba6 and or E2Z can be used as bait proteins in a two hybrid assay or three hybrid assay see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 283 317 Zervos et al. 1993 72 223 232 Madura et al. 1993 268 12046 12054 Bartel et al. 1993 14 920 924 Iwabuchi et al. 1993 8 1693 1696 and Brent WO 94 10300 to identify other proteins which bind to or interact with Uba6 Uba6 binding proteins and are involved in one or more Uba6 activities e.g. ubiquitin activation ubiquitin adenylate intermediate formation ubiquitin thiol esterification ubiquitin transfer to one or more ubiquitin conjugating enzymes e.g. E2s and or ubiquitination of one or more target polypeptides e.g. ubiquitin an E2 a target polypeptide and or protein or the like . Alternatively such Uba6 binding proteins are likely to be Uba6 inhibitors.

In another embodiment an assay is an animal model based assay comprising contacting a an animal with a test compound and determining the ability of the test compound to alter Uba6 and or E2Z expression and or Uba6 and or E2Z activity. Animals include but are not limited to mammals such as non human primates rabbits rats mice and the like.

This invention further pertains to novel agents identified by the above described screening assays. Accordingly it is within the scope of this invention to further use an agent identified as described herein in an appropriate animal model as described herein. For example an agent identified as described herein e.g. a Uba6 and or E2Z modulating agent can be used in an animal model to determine the efficacy toxicity or side effects of treatment with such an agent. Alternatively an agent identified as described herein can be used in an animal model to determine the mechanism of action of such an agent. Furthermore this invention pertains to uses of novel agents identified by the above described screening assays for treatments of ubiquitin related disorders e.g. cellular proliferative disorders and or neurodegenerative disorders described herein.

One aspect of the invention pertains to isolated nucleic acid molecules that encode Uba6 and or E2Z proteins or biologically active portions thereof as well as nucleic acid fragments sufficient for use as hybridization probes to identify Uba6 and or E2Z encoding nucleic acid molecules e.g. Uba6 and or E2Z mRNA respectively and fragments for use as PCR primers for the amplification or mutation of Uba6 nucleic acid molecules. As used herein the term nucleic acid molecule is intended to include but is not limited to DNA molecules e.g. cDNA or genomic DNA and RNA molecules e.g. mRNA and analogs of the DNA or RNA generated using nucleotide analogs. The nucleic acid molecule can be single stranded or double stranded DNA.

An isolated nucleic acid molecule is one which is separated from other nucleic acid molecules which are present in the natural source of the nucleic acid. In an exemplary embodiment an isolated nucleic acid is free of sequences which naturally flank the nucleic acid i.e. sequences located at the 5 and 3 ends of the nucleic acid in the genomic DNA of the organism from which the nucleic acid is derived. For example in various embodiments the isolated Uba6 nucleic acid molecule can contain less than about 5 kb 4 kb 3 kb 2 kb 1 kb 0.5 kb or 0.1 kb of nucleotide sequences which naturally flank the nucleic acid molecule in genomic DNA of the cell from which the nucleic acid is derived. Moreover an isolated nucleic acid molecule such as a cDNA molecule can be substantially free of other cellular material or culture medium when produced by recombinant techniques or substantially free of chemical precursors or other chemicals when chemically synthesized.

A nucleic acid molecule of the present invention e.g. a nucleic acid molecule having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 or a portion thereof can be isolated using standard molecular biology techniques and the sequence information provided herein. Using all or portion of the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 as a hybridization probe Uba6 nucleic acid molecules can be isolated using standard hybridization and cloning techniques e.g. as described in Sambrook J. Fritsh E. F. and Maniatis T. 2nd ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 1989 . Moreover a nucleic acid molecule encompassing all or a portion of SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 can be isolated by the polymerase chain reaction PCR using synthetic oligonucleotide primers designed based upon the sequence of SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6.

A nucleic acid of the invention can be amplified using cDNA mRNA or alternatively genomic DNA as a template and appropriate oligonucleotide primers according to standard PCR amplification techniques. The nucleic acid so amplified can be cloned into an appropriate vector and characterized by DNA sequence analysis. Furthermore oligonucleotides corresponding to Uba6 and or E2Z nucleotide sequences can be prepared by standard synthetic techniques e.g. using an automated DNA synthesizer.

In one embodiment an isolated nucleic acid molecule of the invention comprises the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 or a portion of either of these nucleotide sequences. In another embodiment an isolated nucleic acid molecule of the invention comprises a nucleic acid molecule which is a complement of the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 or a portion of any of these nucleotide sequences. A nucleic acid molecule which is complementary to the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 is one which is sufficiently complementary to the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 such that it can hybridize to the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 thereby forming a stable duplex.

In still another embodiment an isolated nucleic acid molecule of the present invention comprises a nucleotide sequence which is at least about 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 or more identical to the entire length of the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 or a portion of either of these nucleotide sequences.

Moreover the nucleic acid molecule of the invention can comprise only a portion of the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 for example a fragment which can be used as a probe or primer or a fragment encoding a biologically active portion of a Uba6 protein. The nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 allows for the generation of probes and primers designed for use in identifying and or cloning other Uba6 family members as well as Uba6 homologues from other species.

The probe primer typically comprises substantially purified oligonucleotide. The oligonucleotide typically comprises a region of nucleotide sequence that hybridizes under stringent conditions to at least about 12 or 15 about 20 or 25 about 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 or 75 consecutive nucleotides of a sense sequence of SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 of an anti sense sequence of SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 or of a naturally occurring allelic variant or mutant of SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6. In an exemplary embodiment a nucleic acid molecule of the present invention comprises a nucleotide sequence which is 350 400 400 450 450 500 500 550 550 600 600 650 650 700 700 750 750 800 800 850 850 900 900 950 950 1000 1000 1500 1500 2000 2000 2500 2500 3000 3000 3500 3500 4000 4000 4500 4500 5000 5101 5386 5000 5500 or more nucleotides in length and hybridizes under stringent hybridization conditions to a nucleic acid molecule of SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6.

Probes based on the Uba6 nucleotide sequences can be used to detect transcripts or genomic sequences encoding the same or homologous proteins. In certain embodiments the probe further comprises a label group attached thereto e.g. the label group can be a radioisotope a fluorescent compound an enzyme or an enzyme co factor. Such probes can be used as a part of a diagnostic test kit for identifying cells or tissue which mis express Uba6 such as by measuring a level of a Uba6 encoding nucleic acid in a sample of cells from a subject e.g. detecting Uba6 mRNA levels or determining whether a genomic Uba6 gene has been mutated or deleted.

A nucleic acid fragment encoding a biologically active portion of a Uba6 protein can be prepared by isolating a portion of the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 which encodes a polypeptide having a Uba6 biological activity the biological activities of the Uba6 proteins are described herein expressing the encoded portion of the Uba6 protein e.g. by recombinant expression in vitro and assessing the activity of the encoded portion of Uba6.

The invention further encompasses nucleic acid molecules that differ from the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 due to degeneracy of the genetic code and thus encode the same Uba6 proteins as those encoded by the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6. In another embodiment an isolated nucleic acid molecule of the invention has a nucleotide sequence encoding a protein having an amino acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NO 5 or SEQ ID NO 7.

In addition to the Uba6 nucleotide sequences of SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that DNA sequence polymorphisms that lead to changes in the amino acid sequences of the Uba6 proteins may exist within a population e.g. the human population . Such genetic polymorphism in the Uba6 genes may exist among individuals within a population due to natural allelic variation. As used herein the terms gene and recombinant gene refer to nucleic acid molecules which include an open reading frame encoding Uba6 such as a mammalian or mouse or zebrafish Uba6 and can further include non coding regulatory sequences and introns.

Allelic variants of Uba6 include both functional and non functional Uba6 proteins. Functional allelic variants are naturally occurring amino acid sequence variants of the Uba6 that maintain the ability to bind a Uba6 ligand and or modulate any of the Uba6 activities described herein. Functional allelic variants will typically contain only conservative substitution of one or more amino acids of SEQ ID NO 5 or SEQ ID NO 7 or substitution deletion or insertion of non critical residues in non critical regions of the protein.

Non functional allelic variants are naturally occurring amino acid sequence variants of the Uba6 that do not have the ability to either bind a Uba6 ligand and or modulate any of the Uba6 activities described herein. Non functional allelic variants will typically contain a non conservative substitution a deletion or insertion or premature truncation of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 5 or SEQ ID NO 7 or a substitution insertion or deletion in critical residues or critical regions.

The present invention further provides non human orthologs of a Uba6 protein. Orthologs of a Uba6 protein are proteins that are isolated from various organisms that possess the same Uba6 ligand binding and or modulation of any of the Uba6 activities described herein. Orthologs of Uba6 can readily be identified as comprising an amino acid sequence that is substantially identical to SEQ ID NO 5 or SEQ ID NO 7.

Moreover nucleic acid molecules encoding other Uba6 family members and thus which have a nucleotide sequence which differs from the Uba6 sequences of SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 are intended to be within the scope of the invention. For example another Uba6 cDNA can be identified based on the nucleotide sequence of human or mouse Uba6. Moreover nucleic acid molecules encoding Uba6 proteins from different species and thus which have a nucleotide sequence which differs from the Uba6 sequences of SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 are intended to be within the scope of the invention. For example a monkey Uba6 cDNA can be identified based on the nucleotide sequence of a human or mouse Uba6.

Nucleic acid molecules corresponding to natural allelic variants and homologues of the Uba6 cDNAs of the invention can be isolated based on their homology to the Uba6 nucleic acids disclosed herein using the cDNAs disclosed herein or a portion thereof as a hybridization probe according to standard hybridization techniques under stringent hybridization conditions.

Accordingly in another embodiment an isolated nucleic acid molecule of the invention is at least 15 20 25 30 or more nucleotides in length and hybridizes under stringent conditions to the nucleic acid molecule comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6. In other embodiment the nucleic acid is at least 30 50 100 150 200 250 300 307 350 400 450 500 550 600 650 700 750 800 850 900 950 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 4500 5000 5101 5386 or 5500 nucleotides in length. As used herein the term hybridizes under stringent conditions is intended to describe conditions for hybridization and washing under which nucleotide sequences at least 60 identical to each other typically remain hybridized to each other. In exemplary embodiments the conditions are such that sequences at least about 70 at least about 80 at least about 85 at least about 90 or 95 identical to each other typically remain hybridized to each other. Such stringent conditions are known to those skilled in the art and can be found in John Wiley Sons N.Y. 1989 6.3.1 6.3.6. A non limiting example of stringent hybridization conditions are hybridization in 6 sodium chloride sodium citrate SSC at about 45 C. followed by one or more washes in 0.2 SSC 0.1 SDS at 50 C. in certain aspects at 55 C. and in other aspects at 60 C. or 65 C. In certain aspects an isolated nucleic acid molecule of the invention that hybridizes under stringent conditions to the sequence of SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 corresponds to a naturally occurring nucleic acid molecule. As used herein a naturally occurring nucleic acid molecule refers to an RNA or DNA molecule having a nucleotide sequence that occurs in nature e.g. encodes a natural protein .

In addition to naturally occurring allelic variants of the Uba6 sequences that may exist in the population the skilled artisan will further appreciate that changes can be introduced by mutation into the nucleotide sequences of SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 thereby leading to changes in the amino acid sequence of the encoded Uba6 proteins without altering the functional ability of the Uba6 proteins. For example nucleotide substitutions leading to amino acid substitutions at non essential amino acid residues can be made in the sequence of SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6. A non essential amino acid residue is a residue that can be altered from the wild type sequence of Uba6 e.g. the sequence of SEQ ID NO 5 or SEQ ID NO 7 without altering the biological activity whereas an essential amino acid residue is required for biological activity. For example amino acid residues that are conserved among the Uba6 proteins of the present invention are predicted to be particularly unamenable to alteration. Furthermore additional amino acid residues that are conserved between the Uba6 proteins of the present invention and other members of the Uba6 family of proteins are not likely to be amenable to alteration.

Accordingly another aspect of the invention pertains to nucleic acid molecules encoding Uba6 proteins that contain changes in amino acid residues that are not essential for activity. Such Uba6 proteins differ in amino acid sequence from SEQ ID NO 5 or SEQ ID NO 7 yet retain biological activity. In one embodiment the isolated nucleic acid molecule comprises a nucleotide sequence encoding a protein wherein the protein comprises an amino acid sequence at least about 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 or more identical to SEQ ID NO 5 or SEQ ID NO 7.

An isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a Uba6 protein homologous to the protein of SEQ ID NO 5 or SEQ ID NO 7 can be created by introducing one or more nucleotide substitutions additions or deletions into the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 such that one or more amino acid substitutions additions or deletions are introduced into the encoded protein. Mutations can be introduced into SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 by standard techniques such as site directed mutagenesis and PCR mediated mutagenesis. In certain embodiments conservative amino acid substitutions are made at one or more predicted non essential amino acid residues. A conservative amino acid substitution is one in which the amino acid residue is replaced with an amino acid residue having a similar side chain. Families of amino acid residues having similar side chains have been defined in the art. These families include amino acids with basic side chains e.g. lysine arginine histidine acidic side chains e.g. aspartic acid glutamic acid uncharged polar side chains e.g. glycine asparagine glutamine serine threonine tyrosine cysteine nonpolar side chains e.g. alanine valine leucine isoleucine proline phenylalanine methionine tryptophan beta branched side chains e.g. threonine valine isoleucine and aromatic side chains e.g. tyrosine phenylalanine tryptophan histidine . In certain aspects a predicted nonessential amino acid residue in a Uba6 protein is replaced with another amino acid residue from the same side chain family. Alternatively in another embodiment mutations can be introduced randomly along all or part of a Uba6 coding sequence such as by saturation mutagenesis and the resultant mutants can be screened for Uba6 biological activity to identify mutants that retain activity. Following mutagenesis of SEQ ID NO 4 or SEQ ID NO 6 the encoded protein can be expressed recombinantly and the activity of the protein can be determined.

In an exemplary embodiment a mutant Uba6 protein can be assayed for the ability to 1 activate ubiquitin 2 mediate ubiquitin adenylate intermediate formation 3 mediate ubiquitin thiol esterification 4 transfer ubiquitin to one or more ubiquitin conjugating enzymes e.g. E2s and or 5 ubiquitinate one or more target polypeptides e.g. ubiquitin an E2 a target polypeptide and or protein or the like . In another exemplary embodiment a mutant E2Z protein can be assayed for the ability to 1 activate ubiquitin 2 mediate ubiquitin adenylate intermediate formation 3 mediate ubiquitin thiol esterification 4 transfer ubiquitin to one or more ubiquitin protein ligases e.g. E3s and or 5 ubiquitinate one or more target polypeptides e.g. ubiquitin an E3 a target polypeptide and or protein or the like .

In addition to the nucleic acid molecules encoding Uba6 and or E2Z proteins described above another aspect of the invention pertains to isolated nucleic acid molecules which are antisense thereto. An antisense nucleic acid comprises a nucleotide sequence which is complementary to a sense nucleic acid encoding a protein e.g. complementary to the coding strand of a double stranded cDNA molecule or complementary to an mRNA sequence. Accordingly an antisense nucleic acid can hydrogen bond to a sense nucleic acid. The antisense nucleic acid can be complementary to an entire Uba6 and or E2Z coding strand or to only a portion thereof. In one embodiment an antisense nucleic acid molecule is antisense to a coding region of the coding strand of a nucleotide sequence encoding Uba6 and or E2Z. The term coding region refers to the region of the nucleotide sequence comprising codons which are translated into amino acid residues. In another embodiment the antisense nucleic acid molecule is antisense to a non coding region of the coding strand of a nucleotide sequence encoding Uba6 and or E2Z. The term non coding region refers to 5 and 3 sequences which flank the coding region that are not translated into amino acids i.e. also referred to as 5 and 3 untranslated regions .

Embodiments of the present invention provide amino acid sequences having one or more biologically active portions of a Uba6 and or E2Z protein. As used herein a biologically active portion of a Uba6 protein includes a fragment of a Uba6 protein which participates in an interaction between a Uba6 molecule and a non Uba6 molecule. As used herein a biologically active portion of an E2Z protein includes a fragment of a E2Z protein which participates in an interaction between an E2Z molecule and a non E2Z molecule. Biologically active portions of a Uba6 protein include peptides comprising amino acid sequences sufficiently identical to or derived from the amino acid sequence of the Uba6 protein e.g. the amino acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NO 5 or SEQ ID NO 7 which include less amino acids than a full length Uba6 protein and exhibit at least one activity of a Uba6 protein. Typically biologically active portions comprise a domain or motif e.g. one two or more ThiF domains one or more catalytic cysteine domains one or more adenylate domains and or one or more C terminal ubiquitin like Ubl domains with at least one activity of the Uba6 protein e.g. ubiquitin activation ubiquitin adenylate intermediate formation ubiquitin thiol esterification ubiquitin transfer to one or more ubiquitin conjugating enzymes e.g. E2s and or ubiquitination of one or more target polypeptides e.g. ubiquitin an E2 a target polypeptide and or protein or the like . A biologically active portion of a Uba6 protein can be a polypeptide which is for example 10 25 50 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 1050 1052 1053 or more amino acids in length. Biologically active portions of a Uba6 protein can be used as targets for developing agents which modulate a UPP activity. In one embodiment a biologically active portion of a Uba6 protein comprises at least one ThiF domain catalytic cysteine domain adenylate domain and or a C terminal ubiquitin like domain.

It is to be understood that in certain embodiments a biologically active portion of a Uba6 protein of the present invention may contain at least one of the above identified structural domains. In other embodiments a biologically active portion of a Uba6 protein may contain at least two at least three or at least four of the above identified structural domains. Moreover other biologically active portions in which other regions of the protein are deleted can be prepared by recombinant techniques and evaluated for one or more of the functional activities of a native Uba6 protein.

In an exemplary embodiment the Uba6 protein has an amino acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NO 5 or SEQ ID NO 7. In other embodiments the Uba6 protein is substantially homologous to SEQ ID NO 5 or SEQ ID NO 7 and retains the functional activity of the protein of SEQ ID NO 5 or SEQ ID NO 7 yet differs in amino acid sequence due to natural allelic variation or mutagenesis as described in detail above. Accordingly in another embodiment the Uba6 protein is a protein which comprises an amino acid sequence at least about 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 or more identical to SEQ ID NO 5 or SEQ ID NO 7.

To determine the percent identity of two amino acid sequences or of two nucleic acid sequences the sequences are aligned for optimal comparison purposes e.g. gaps can be introduced in one or both of a first and a second amino acid or nucleic acid sequence for optimal alignment and non homologous sequences can be disregarded for comparison purposes . In an exemplary embodiment the length of a reference sequence aligned for comparison purposes is at least 30 at least 40 at least 50 at least 60 and even at least 70 80 or 90 of the length of the reference sequence e.g. when aligning a second sequence to the Uba6 amino acid sequence having 1052 and 1053 amino acid residues respectively at least 315 at least 420 at least 526 at least 631 and even at least 736 841 or 946 amino acid residues are aligned . The amino acid residues or nucleotides at corresponding amino acid positions or nucleotide positions are then compared. When a position in the first sequence is occupied by the same amino acid residue or nucleotide as the corresponding position in the second sequence then the molecules are identical at that position as used herein amino acid or nucleic acid identity is equivalent to amino acid or nucleic acid homology . The percent identity between the two sequences is a function of the number of identical positions shared by the sequences taking into account the number of gaps and the length of each gap which need to be introduced for optimal alignment of the two sequences.

The comparison of sequences and determination of percent identity between two sequences can be accomplished using a mathematical algorithm. In an exemplary embodiment the percent identity between two amino acid sequences is determined using the Needleman and Wunsch . 48 444 453 1970 algorithm which has been incorporated into the GAP program in the GCG software package available at http www.gcg.com using either a Blosum 62 matrix or a PAM250 matrix and a gap weight of 16 14 12 10 8 6 or 4 and a length weight of 1 2 3 4 5 or 6. In yet another exemplary embodiment the percent identity between two nucleotide sequences is determined using the GAP program in the GCG software package available at the website gcg.com using a NWSgapdnaCMP matrix and a gap weight of 40 50 60 70 or 80 and a length weight of 1 2 3 4 5 or 6. In another embodiment the percent identity between two amino acid or nucleotide sequences is determined using the algorithm of E. Meyers and W. Miller 1989 4 11 which has been incorporated into the ALIGN program version 2.0 using a PAM120 weight residue table a gap length penalty of 12 and a gap penalty of 4.

The nucleic acid and protein sequences of the present invention can further be used as a query sequence to perform a search against public databases to for example identify other family members or related sequences. Such searches can be performed using the NBLAST and XBLAST programs version 2.0 of Altschul et al. 1990 215 403. BLAST nucleotide searches can be performed with the NBLAST program score 100 wordlength 12 to obtain nucleotide sequences homologous to Uba6 nucleic acid molecules of the invention. BLAST protein searches can be performed with the XBLAST program score 50 wordlength 3 to obtain amino acid sequences homologous to Uba6 protein molecules of the invention. To obtain gapped alignments for comparison purposes Gapped BLAST can be utilized as described in Altschul et al. 1997 25 17 3389. When utilizing BLAST and Gapped BLAST programs the default parameters of the respective programs e.g. XBLAST and NBLAST can be used ncbi.nlm.nih.gov website .

Another aspect of the invention pertains to vectors such as expression vectors containing a nucleic acid encoding a Uba6 and or an E2Z protein or a portion thereof . As used herein the term vector refers to a nucleic acid molecule capable of transporting another nucleic acid to which it has been linked. One type of vector is a plasmid which refers to a circular double stranded DNA loop into which additional DNA segments can be ligated. Another type of vector is a viral vector wherein additional DNA segments can be ligated into the viral genome. Certain vectors are capable of autonomous replication in a host cell into which they are introduced e.g. bacterial vectors having a bacterial origin of replication and episomal mammalian vectors . Other vectors e.g. non episomal mammalian vectors are integrated into the genome of a host cell upon introduction into the host cell and thereby are replicated along with the host genome. Moreover certain vectors are capable of directing the expression of genes to which they are operatively linked. Such vectors are referred to herein as expression vectors. In general expression vectors of utility in recombinant DNA techniques are often in the form of plasmids. In the present specification plasmid and vector can be used interchangeably as the plasmid is the most commonly used form of vector. However the invention is intended to include such other forms of expression vectors such as viral vectors e.g. replication defective retroviruses adenoviruses and adeno associated viruses which serve equivalent functions.

The recombinant expression vectors of the invention comprise a nucleic acid of the invention in a form suitable for expression of the nucleic acid in a host cell which means that the recombinant expression vectors include one or more regulatory sequences selected on the basis of the host cells to be used for expression which is operatively linked to the nucleic acid sequence to be expressed. Within a recombinant expression vector operably linked is intended to mean that the nucleotide sequence of interest is linked to the regulatory sequence s in a manner which allows for expression of the nucleotide sequence e.g. in an in vitro transcription translation system or in a host cell when the vector is introduced into the host cell . The term regulatory sequence is intended to includes promoters enhancers and other expression control elements e.g. polyadenylation signals . Such regulatory sequences are described for example in Goeddel 185 Academic Press San Diego Calif. 1990 . Regulatory sequences include those which direct constitutive expression of a nucleotide sequence in many types of host cells and those which direct expression of the nucleotide sequence only in certain host cells e.g. tissue specific regulatory sequences . It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the design of the expression vector can depend on such factors as the choice of the host cell to be transformed the level of expression of protein desired etc. The expression vectors of the invention can be introduced into host cells to thereby produce proteins or peptides including fusion proteins or peptides encoded by nucleic acids as described herein e.g. Uba6 and or E2Z proteins mutant forms of Uba6 and or E2Z proteins fusion proteins and the like .

The recombinant expression vectors of the invention can be designed for expression of Uba6 in prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells. For example Uba6 Uba6 fragments E2Z and or E2Z fragments can be expressed in bacterial cells such as insect cells using baculovirus expression vectors yeast cells or mammalian cells. Suitable host cells are discussed further in Goeddel 185 Academic Press San Diego Calif. 1990 . Alternatively the recombinant expression vector can be transcribed and translated in vitro for example using T7 promoter regulatory sequences and T7 polymerase.

Expression of polypeptides in prokaryotes is most often carried out in with vectors containing constitutive or inducible promoters directing the expression of either fusion or non fusion proteins. Fusion vectors add a number of amino acids to a polypeptide encoded therein usually to the amino terminus of the recombinant polypeptide. Such fusion vectors typically serve three purposes 1 to increase expression of recombinant polypeptide 2 to increase the solubility of the recombinant polypeptide and 3 to aid in the purification of the recombinant polypeptide by acting as a ligand in affinity purification. Often in fusion expression vectors a proteolytic cleavage site is introduced at the junction of the fusion moiety and the recombinant polypeptide to enable separation of the recombinant polypeptide from the fusion moiety subsequent to purification of the fusion polypeptide. Such enzymes and their cognate recognition sequences include Factor Xa thrombin and enterokinase. Typical fusion expression vectors include pGEX Pharmacia Biotech Inc Smith D. B. and Johnson K. S. 1988 67 31 40 pMAL New England Biolabs Beverly Mass. and pRIT5 Pharmacia Piscataway N.J. which fuse glutathione S transferase GST maltose E binding protein or protein A respectively to the target recombinant protein.

Examples of suitable inducible non fusion expression vectors include pTrc Amann et al. 1988 69 301 315 and pET 11d Studier et al. 185 Academic Press San Diego Calif. 1990 60 89 . Target gene expression from the pTrc vector relies on host RNA polymerase transcription from a hybrid trp lac fusion promoter. Target gene expression from the pET 11d vector relies on transcription from a T7 gn10 lac fusion promoter mediated by a coexpressed viral RNA polymerase T7 gn1 . This viral polymerase is supplied by host strains BL21 DE3 or HMS174 DE3 from a resident prophage harboring a T7 gn1 gene under the transcriptional control of the lacUV 5 promoter.

One strategy to maximize recombinant protein expression in is to express the protein in a host bacteria with an impaired capacity to proteolytically cleave the recombinant protein Gottesman S. 185 Academic Press San Diego Calif. 1990 119 128 . Another strategy is to alter the nucleic acid sequence of the nucleic acid to be inserted into an expression vector so that the individual codons for each amino acid are those preferentially utilized in Wada et al. 1992 20 2111 . Such alteration of nucleic acid sequences of the invention can be carried out by standard DNA synthesis techniques.

In another embodiment the Uba6 expression vector is a yeast expression vector. Examples of vectors for expression in yeast include pYepSec1 Baldari et al. 1987 6 229 pMFa Kurjan and Herskowitz 1982 30 933 pJRY88 Schultz et al. 1987 54 113 pYES2 Invitrogen San Diego Calif. and picZ Invitrogen San Diego Calif. .

Alternatively Uba6 and or E2Z polypeptides can be expressed in insect cells using baculovirus expression vectors. Baculovirus vectors available for expression of proteins in cultured insect cells e.g. Sf 9 cells include the pAc series Smith et al. 1983 3 2156 and the pVL series Lucklow and Summers 1989 170 31 .

In yet another embodiment a nucleic acid of the invention is expressed in mammalian cells using a mammalian expression vector. Examples of mammalian expression vectors include pCDM8 Seed B. 1987 329 840 and pMT2PC Kaufman et al. 1987 6 187 . When used in mammalian cells the expression vector s control functions are often provided by viral regulatory elements. For example commonly used promoters are derived from polyoma adenovirus 2 cytomegalovirus and Simian virus 40. For other suitable expression systems for both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells see chapters 16 and 17 of Sambrook J. Fritsh E. F. and Maniatis T. 2nd ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 1989.

In another embodiment the recombinant mammalian expression vector is capable of directing expression of the nucleic acid preferentially in a particular cell type e.g. tissue specific regulatory elements are used to express the nucleic acid . Tissue specific regulatory elements are known in the art. Non limiting examples of suitable tissue specific promoters include the albumin promoter liver specific Pinkert et al. 1987 1 268 lymphoid specific promoters Calame and Eaton 1988 43 235 in particular promoters of T cell receptors Winoto and Baltimore 1989 8 729 and immuno globulins Banerji et al. 1983 33 729 Queen and Baltimore 1983 33 741 neuron specific promoters e.g. the neurofilament promoter Byrne and Ruddle 1989 86 5473 pancreas specific promoters Edlund et al. 1985 230 912 and mammary gland specific promoters e.g. milk whey promoter U.S. Pat. No. 4 873 316 and European Application Publication No. 264 166 . Developmentally regulated promoters are also encompassed for example the murine hox promoters Kessel and Gruss 1990 249 374 and the fetoprotein promoter Campes and Tilghman 1989 3 537 .

In one embodiment the present invention provides a nucleic acid molecule which is antisense to a Uba6 nucleic acid molecule. As used herein the term antisense refers to a nucleic acid that interferes with the function of DNA and or RNA and may result in suppression of expression of the RNA and or DNA. The antisense nucleic acid comprises a nucleotide sequence which is complementary to a sense nucleic acid encoding a protein e.g. complementary to the coding strand of a double stranded cDNA molecule or complementary to an mRNA sequence. Accordingly an antisense nucleic acid can hydrogen bond to a sense nucleic acid. The antisense nucleic acid can be complementary to an entire Uba6 coding strand or to only a portion thereof.

An antisense nucleic acid molecule can be delivered to a cell to express an exogenous nucleotide sequence to inhibit eliminate augment or alter expression of an endogenous nucleotide sequence or to express a specific physiological characteristic not naturally associated with the cell. In certain embodiments the antisense nucleic acid is an antisense RNA an interfering double stranded RNA dsRNA a short interfering RNA siRNA or a ribozyme.

As used herein the term siRNA refers to double stranded RNA that is less than 30 bases such as 21 25 bases in length. siRNA may be prepared by any method known in the art. For a review of siRNA and RNA interference see Macrae et al. 2006 311 195 Vermeulen et al. 2005 11 674 Nishikura 2001 16 415 Fire et al. 1998 391 806. In one embodiment single stranded gene specific sense and antisense RNA oligomers with overhanging 3 deoxynucleotides are prepared and purified. For example two oligomers can be annealed by heating to 94 C. for 2 minutes cooling to 90 C. for 1 minute and then cooling to 20 C. at a rate of 1 C. per minute. The siRNA can then be injected into an animal or delivered into a desired cell type using methods of nucleic acid delivery described herein.

Another aspect of the invention pertains to host cells into which a recombinant expression vector of the invention has been introduced containing sequences which allow it to homologously recombine into a specific site of the host cell s genome. The terms host cell and recombinant host cell are used interchangeably herein. It is understood that such terms refer not only to the particular subject cell but to the progeny or potential progeny of such a cell. Because certain modifications may occur in succeeding generations due to either mutation or environmental influences such progeny may not in fact be identical to the parent cell but are still included within the scope of the term as used herein.

A host cell can be any prokaryotic or eukaryotic cell. For example host cells can be bacterial cells such as insect cells e.g. cells yeast cells zebrafish cells or mammalian cells such as Chinese hamster ovary cells CHO African green monkey kidney cells COS or fetal human cells 293T . Other suitable host cells are known to those skilled in the art.

Vector DNA can be introduced into prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells via conventional transformation or transfection techniques. As used herein the terms transformation and transfection are intended to refer to a variety of art recognized techniques for introducing foreign nucleic acid e.g. DNA into a host cell including calcium phosphate or calcium chloride co precipitation DEAE dextran mediated transfection lipofection or electroporation. Suitable methods for transforming or transfecting host cells can be found in Sambrook et al. 2nd ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 1989 and other laboratory manuals.

For stable transfection of mammalian cells it is known that depending upon the expression vector and transfection technique used only a small fraction of cells may integrate the foreign DNA into their genome. In order to identify and select these integrants a gene that encodes a selectable marker e.g. resistance to antibiotics is generally introduced into the host cells along with the gene of interest. Exemplary selectable markers include those which confer resistance to drugs such as G418 hygromycin and methotrexate. Nucleic acid encoding a selectable marker can be introduced into a host cell on the same vector as that encoding a detectable translation product or can be introduced on a separate vector. Cells stably transfected with the introduced nucleic acid can be identified by drug selection e.g. cells that have incorporated the selectable marker gene will survive while the other cells die .

A host cell of the invention such as a prokaryotic or eukaryotic host cell in culture can be used to produce i.e. express a Uba6 and or an E2Z protein or portion thereof. Accordingly the invention further provides methods for producing a Uba6 and or an E2Z protein or portion thereof using the host cells of the invention. In one embodiment the method comprises culturing the host cell of invention into which a recombinant expression vector encoding a detectable translation product has been introduced in a suitable medium such that a detectable translation product is produced. In another embodiment the method further comprises isolating a Uba6 and or an E2Z protein or portion thereof from the medium or the host cell.

The host cells of the invention can also be used to produce nonhuman transgenic animals. For example in one embodiment a host cell of the invention is a fertilized oocyte or an embryonic stem cell into which Uba6 coding sequences have been introduced. Such host cells can then be used to create non human transgenic animals in which exogenous Uba6 sequences have been introduced into their genome. As used herein a transgenic animal is a non human animal such as a mammal e.g. a rodent such as a rat or mouse in which one or more of the cells of the animal includes a transgene. Other examples of transgenic animals include non human primates sheep dogs cows goats chickens amphibians etc. A transgene is exogenous DNA which is integrated into the genome of a cell from which a transgenic animal develops and which remains in the genome of the mature animal thereby directing the expression of an encoded gene product in one or more cell types or tissues of the transgenic animal. As used herein a homologous recombinant animal is a non human animal such as a mamma e.g. a mouse in which an endogenous gene has been altered by homologous recombination between the endogenous gene and an exogenous DNA molecule introduced into a cell of the animal e.g. an embryonic cell of the animal prior to development of the animal.

Methods for generating transgenic animals via embryo manipulation and microinjection particularly animals such as mice have become conventional in the art and are described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 736 866 and 4 870 009 in U.S. Pat. No. 4 873 191 by Wagner et al. in Hogan B. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 1986 and in Wilmut et al. 1997 385 810. Similar methods are used for production of other transgenic animals. Methods for producing transgenic non humans animals that contain selected systems which allow for regulated expression of the transgene are described in Lakso et al. 1992 89 6232 and O Gorman et al. 1991 251 1351 .

An exemplary method for detecting Uba6 and or E2Z expression or Uba6 and or E2Z activity in a biological sample involves obtaining a biological sample from a test subject and contacting the biological sample with a compound or an agent capable of detecting Uba6 and or E2Z expression or Uba6 and or E2Z activity e.g. ubiquitin activation ubiquitin adenylate intermediate formation ubiquitin thiol esterification ubiquitin transfer to one or more ubiquitin conjugating enzymes e.g. E2s ubiquitin transfer to one or more ubiquitin protein ligases e.g. E3s and or ubiquitination of one or more target polypeptides .

In certain aspects an agent for detecting Uba6 and or E2Z expression or Uba6 and or E2Z activity e.g. ubiquitin activation ubiquitin adenylate intermediate formation ubiquitin thiol esterification ubiquitin transfer to one or more ubiquitin conjugating enzymes e.g. E2s ubiquitin transfer to one or more ubiquitin protein ligases e.g. E3s and or ubiquitination of one or more target polypeptides is an antibody capable of binding to Uba6 ubiquitin and or a target polypeptide or protein such as an antibody. Antibodies can be polyclonal or monoclonal. An intact antibody or a fragment thereof e.g. Fab or F ab can be used. The term labeled with regard to the probe or antibody is intended to encompass direct labeling of the probe or antibody by coupling i.e. physically linking a detectable substance to the probe or antibody as well as indirect labeling of the probe or antibody by reactivity with another reagent that is directly labeled. Examples of indirect labeling include detection of a primary antibody using a fluorescently labeled secondary antibody and end labeling of a DNA probe with biotin such that it can be detected with fluorescently labeled streptavidin.

The term biological sample is intended to include tissues cells and biological fluids isolated from a subject as well as tissues cells and fluids present within a subject. That is the detection method of the invention can be used to detect Uba6 and or E2Z expression or Uba6 and or E2Z activity in a biological sample in vitro as well as in vivo. For example in vitro techniques for detection of Uba6 and or E2Z include enzyme linked immunosorbent assays ELISAs Western blots immunoprecipitations and immunofluorescence. Furthermore in vivo techniques for detection of Uba6 and or E2Z expression or Uba6 and or E2Z activity include introducing into a subject a labeled anti Uba6 and or an anti E2Z antibody a labeled anti ubiquitin antibody a labeled anti E2 antibody a labeled anti E3 antibody a labeled anti target protein or the like. For example the antibody can be labeled with a radioactive marker whose presence and location in a subject can be detected by standard imaging techniques.

In one embodiment the biological sample contains protein molecules from the test subject. In certain aspects a biological sample is a serum sample isolated by conventional means from a subject.

In another embodiment the methods further involve obtaining a control biological sample from a control subject contacting the control sample with a compound or agent capable of detecting Uba6 and or E2Z expression or Uba6 and or E2Z activity such that the presence of Uba6 and or E2Z expression or Uba6 and or E2Z activity is detected in the biological sample and comparing the presence of Uba6 and or E2Z expression or Uba6 activity in the control sample with the presence of Uba6 and or E2Z expression or Uba6 and or E2Z activity in the test sample.

The invention also encompasses kits for detecting the presence of Uba6 and or E2Z expression or Uba6 and or E2Z activity in a biological sample. For example the kit can comprise a labeled compound or agent capable of detecting Uba6 and or E2Z expression or Uba6 and or E2Z activity in a biological sample means for determining the amount of Uba6 and or E2Z expression or Uba6 and or E2Z activity in the sample and means for comparing the amount of Uba6 and or E2Z expression or Uba6 and or E2Z activity in the sample with a standard. The compound or agent can be packaged in a suitable container. The kit can further comprise instructions for using the kit to detect Uba6 and or E2Z expression or Uba6 and or E2Z activity.

The diagnostic methods described herein can furthermore be utilized to identify subjects having or at risk of developing a disease or disorder associated with aberrant Uba6 expression or activity e.g. cancer . For example the assays described herein such as the preceding diagnostic assays or the following assays can be utilized to identify a subject having or at risk of developing a disorder associated with a misregulation in Uba6 expression and or activity such as ubiquitin related disorders such as cancer inflammatory disorders neurodegenerative disorders and the like.

Thus the present invention provides a method for identifying a disease or disorder associated with aberrant Uba6 and or E2Z expression or activity in which a test sample is obtained from a subject and Uba6 and or E2Z expression and or Uba6 and or E2Z activity is detected wherein the presence of Uba6 and or E2Z expression and or Uba6 and or E2Z activity is diagnostic for a subject having or at risk of developing a disease or disorder associated with aberrant Uba6 and or E2Z expression and or Uba6 and or E2Z activity expression or activity. As used herein a test sample refers to a biological sample obtained from a subject of interest. For example a test sample can be a biological fluid e.g. serum cell sample or tissue.

Furthermore the prognostic assays described herein can be used to determine whether a subject can be administered an agent e.g. an agonist antagonist peptidomimetic protein peptide nucleic acid small molecule or other drug candidate to treat a disease or disorder associated with aberrant Uba6 and or E2Z expression or activity. For example such methods can be used to determine whether a subject can be effectively treated with an agent for cancer. Thus the present invention provides methods for determining whether a subject can be effectively treated with an agent for a disorder associated with aberrant Uba6 and or E2Z expression or activity in which a test sample is obtained and Uba6 and or E2Z expression and or Uba6 and or E2Z activity is detected.

The methods of the invention can also be used to detect genetic alterations in a Uba6 and or an E2Z gene thereby determining if a subject with the altered gene is at risk for a disorder characterized by misregulation in Uba6 and or E2Z activity such as cancer. In certain embodiments the methods include detecting in a sample of cells from the subject the presence or absence of a genetic alteration characterized by at least one of an alteration affecting the integrity of a gene encoding a Uba6 and or E2Z protein the misexpression of the Uba6 and or E2Z gene or aberrant activity of the Uba6 and or E2Z protein. For example such genetic alterations can be detected by ascertaining the existence of at least one of 1 a deletion of one or more nucleotides from a Uba6 and or an E2Z gene 2 an addition of one or more nucleotides to a Uba6 and or an E2Z gene 3 a substitution of one or more nucleotides of a Uba6 and or an E2Z gene 4 a chromosomal rearrangement of a Uba6 and or an E2Z gene 5 an alteration in the level of a messenger RNA transcript of a Uba6 and or an E2Z gene 6 aberrant modification of a Uba6 and or an E2Z gene such as of the methylation pattern of the genomic DNA 7 the presence of a non wild type splicing pattern of a messenger RNA transcript of a Uba6 and or an E2Z gene 8 a non wild type level of a Uba6 and or an E2Z protein 9 allelic loss of a Uba6 and or an E2Z gene and 10 inappropriate Uba6 and or E2Z activity. As described herein there are a large number of assays known in the art which can be used for detecting alterations in a Uba6 and or an E2Z gene.

In certain embodiments detection of the alteration involves the use of a probe primer in a polymerase chain reaction PCR see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 683 195 and 4 683 202 such as anchor PCR or RACE PCR or alternatively in a ligation chain reaction LCR see e.g. Landegran et al. 1988 241 1077 and Nakazawa et al. 1994 91 360 the latter of which can be particularly useful for detecting point mutations in the Uba6 gene see Abravaya et al. 1995 23 675 . This method can include the steps of collecting a sample of cells from a subject isolating nucleic acid e.g. genomic mRNA or both from the cells of the sample contacting the nucleic acid sample with one or more primers which specifically hybridize to a Uba6 gene under conditions such that hybridization and amplification of the Uba6 gene if present occurs and detecting the presence or absence of an amplification product or detecting the size of the amplification product and comparing the length to a control sample. It is anticipated that PCR and or LCR may be desirable to use as a preliminary amplification step in conjunction with any of the techniques used for detecting mutations described herein.

Alternative amplification methods include self sustained sequence replication Guatelli et al. 1990 87 1874 transcriptional amplification system Kwoh et al. 1989 86 1173 Q Beta Replicase Lizardi P. M. et al. 1988 6 1197 or any other nucleic acid amplification method followed by the detection of the amplified molecules using techniques well known to those of skill in the art. These detection schemes are especially useful for the detection of nucleic acid molecules if such molecules are present in very low numbers.

In an alternative embodiment mutations in a Uba6 gene from a sample cell can be identified by alterations in restriction enzyme cleavage patterns. For example sample and control DNA is isolated amplified optionally digested with one or more restriction endonucleases and fragment length sizes are determined by gel electrophoresis and compared. Differences in fragment length sizes between sample and control DNA indicates mutations in the sample DNA. Moreover the use of sequence specific ribozymes see for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 498 531 can be used to score for the presence of specific mutations by development or loss of a ribozyme cleavage site.

In other embodiments genetic mutations in Uba6 can be identified by hybridizing a sample and control nucleic acids e.g. DNA or RNA to high density arrays containing hundreds or thousands of oligonucleotides probes Cronin M. T. et al. 1996 7 244 Kozal M. J. et al. 1996 2 753 . For example genetic mutations in Uba6 can be identified in two dimensional arrays containing light generated DNA probes as described in Cronin et al. supra. Briefly a first hybridization array of probes can be used to scan through long stretches of DNA in a sample and control to identify base changes between the sequences by making linear arrays of sequential overlapping probes. This step allows the identification of point mutations. This step is followed by a second hybridization array that allows the characterization of specific mutations by using smaller specialized probe arrays complementary to all variants or mutations detected. Each mutation array is composed of parallel probe sets one complementary to the wild type gene and the other complementary to the mutant gene.

In yet another embodiment any of a variety of sequencing reactions known in the art can be used to directly sequence the Uba6 and or E2Z gene and detect mutations by comparing the sequence of the sample Uba6 and or E2Z with the corresponding wild type control sequence. Examples of sequencing reactions include those based on techniques developed by Maxam and Gilbert 1977 74 560 or Sanger 1977 74 5463 . It is also contemplated that any of a variety of automated sequencing procedures can be utilized when performing the diagnostic assays 1995 19 448 including sequencing by mass spectrometry see e.g. PCT International Publication No. WO 94 16101 Cohen et al. 1996 36 127 162 and Griffin et al. 1993 38 147 .

Other methods for detecting mutations in the Uba6 and or E2Z gene include methods in which protection from cleavage agents is used to detect mismatched bases in RNA RNA or RNA DNA heteroduplexes Myers et al. 1985 230 1242 . In general the art technique of mismatch cleavage starts by providing heteroduplexes formed by hybridizing labeled RNA or DNA containing the wild type Uba6 and or E2Z sequence with potentially mutant RNA or DNA obtained from a tissue sample. The double stranded duplexes are treated with an agent which cleaves single stranded regions of the duplex such as which will exist due to base pair mismatches between the control and sample strands. For instance RNA DNA duplexes can be treated with RNase and DNA DNA hybrids treated with 51 nuclease to enzymatically digesting the mismatched regions. In other embodiments either DNA DNA or RNA DNA duplexes can be treated with hydroxylamine or osmium tetroxide and with piperidine in order to digest mismatched regions. After digestion of the mismatched regions the resulting material is then separated by size on denaturing polyacrylamide gels to determine the site of mutation. See for example Cotton et al. 1988 85 4397 Saleeba et al. 1992 217 286. In an exemplary embodiment the control DNA or RNA can be labeled for detection.

In still another embodiment the mismatch cleavage reaction employs one or more proteins that recognize mismatched base pairs in double stranded DNA so called DNA mismatch repair enzymes in defined systems for detecting and mapping point mutations in Uba6 and or E2Z cDNAs obtained from samples of cells. For example the mutY enzyme of cleaves A at G A mismatches and the thymidine DNA glycosylase from HeLa cells cleaves T at G T mismatches Hsu et al. 1994 15 1657 . According to an exemplary embodiment a probe based on a Uba6 and or an E2Z sequence e.g. a wild type Uba6 and or E2Z sequence is hybridized to a cDNA or other DNA product from a test cell s . The duplex is treated with a DNA mismatch repair enzyme and the cleavage products if any can be detected from electrophoresis protocols or the like. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 459 039.

In other embodiments alterations in electrophoretic mobility will be used to identify mutations in Uba6 and or E2Z genes. For example single strand conformation polymorphism SSCP may be used to detect differences in electrophoretic mobility between mutant and wild type nucleic acids Orita et al. 1989 86 2766 see also Cotton 1993 285 125 and Hayashi 1992 9 73 . Single stranded DNA fragments of sample and control Uba6 nucleic acids will be denatured and allowed to renature. The secondary structure of single stranded nucleic acids varies according to sequence the resulting alteration in electrophoretic mobility enables the detection of even a single base change. The DNA fragments may be labeled or detected with labeled probes. The sensitivity of the assay may be enhanced by using RNA rather than DNA in which the secondary structure is more sensitive to a change in sequence. In an exemplary embodiment the subject method utilizes heteroduplex analysis to separate double stranded heteroduplex molecules on the basis of changes in electrophoretic mobility Keen et al. 1991 7 5 .

In yet another embodiment the movement of mutant or wild type fragments in polyacrylamide gels containing a gradient of denaturant is assayed using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis DGGE Myers et al. 1985 313 495 . When DGGE is used as the method of analysis DNA will be modified to insure that it does not completely denature for example by adding a GC clamp of approximately 40 bp of high melting GC rich DNA by PCR. In a further embodiment a temperature gradient is used in place of a denaturing gradient to identify differences in the mobility of control and sample DNA Rosenbaum and Reissner 1987 265 12753 .

Examples of other techniques for detecting point mutations include but are not limited to selective oligonucleotide hybridization selective amplification or selective primer extension. For example oligonucleotide primers may be prepared in which the known mutation is placed centrally and then hybridized to target DNA under conditions which permit hybridization only if a perfect match is found Saiki et al. 1986 324 163 Saiki et al. 1989 86 6230 . Such allele specific oligonucleotides are hybridized to PCR amplified target DNA or a number of different mutations when the oligonucleotides are attached to the hybridizing membrane and hybridized with labeled target DNA.

Alternatively allele specific amplification technology which depends on selective PCR amplification may be used in conjunction with the instant invention. Oligonucleotides used as primers for specific amplification may carry the mutation of interest in the center of the molecule so that amplification depends on differential hybridization Gibbs et al. 1989 17 2437 or at the extreme 3 end of one primer where under appropriate conditions mismatch can prevent or reduce polymerase extension Prossner 1993 11 238 . In addition it may be desirable to introduce a novel restriction site in the region of the mutation to create cleavage based detection Gasparini et al. 1992 6 1 . It is anticipated that in certain embodiments amplification may also be performed using Taq ligase for amplification Barany 1991 88 189 . In such cases ligation will occur only if there is a perfect match at the 3 end of the 5 sequence making it possible to detect the presence of a known mutation at a specific site by looking for the presence or absence of amplification.

The methods described herein may be performed for example by utilizing pre packaged diagnostic kits comprising at least one probe nucleic acid or antibody reagent described herein which may be conveniently used e.g. in clinical settings to diagnose patients exhibiting symptoms or family history of a disease or illness involving a Uba6 gene. Furthermore any cell type or tissue in which Uba6 is expressed may be utilized in the prognostic assays described herein.

Monitoring the influence of agents e.g. drugs on the expression or one or more activities of Uba6 and or E2Z e.g. ubiquitin activation ubiquitin adenylate intermediate formation ubiquitin thiol esterification ubiquitin transfer to one or more ubiquitin conjugating enzymes e.g. E2s ubiquitin transfer to one or more ubiquitin protein ligases e.g. E3s and or ubiquitination of one or more target polypeptides e.g. ubiquitin an E2 an E3 a target polypeptide and or protein or the like can be applied not only in basic drug screening but also in clinical trials. For example the effectiveness of an agent determined by a screening assay as described herein to increase Uba6 and or E2Z gene expression or protein levels or upregulate Uba6 and or E2Z activity can be monitored in clinical trials of subjects exhibiting decreased Uba6 and or E2Z gene expression protein levels or downregulated Uba6 and or E2Z activity. Alternatively the effectiveness of an agent determined by a screening assay to decrease Uba6 and or E2Z gene expression or protein levels or downregulate or Uba6 and or E2Z activity can be monitored in clinical trials of subjects exhibiting increased Uba6 and or E2Z gene expression protein levels or upregulated Uba6 and or E2Z activity.

In an exemplary embodiment the present invention provides a method for monitoring the effectiveness of treatment of a subject with an agent e.g. an agonist antagonist peptidomimetic protein peptide nucleic acid small molecule or other drug candidate identified by the screening assays described herein including the steps of i obtaining a pre administration sample from a subject prior to administration of the agent ii detecting the level of expression of a Uba6 and or an E2Z protein mRNA or genomic DNA or of the level of Uba6 and or E2Z activity in the preadministration sample iii obtaining one or more post administration samples from the subject iv detecting the level of expression or activity of the Uba6 and or E2Z protein mRNA or genomic DNA or of the level of Uba6 and or E2Z activity in the post administration samples v comparing the level of expression or activity of the Uba6 and or E2Z protein mRNA or genomic DNA or of the level of Uba6 and or E2Z activity in the pre administration sample with the Uba6 and or E2Z protein mRNA or genomic DNA or Uba6 and or E2Z activity in the post administration sample or samples and vi altering the administration of the agent to the subject accordingly. For example increased administration of the agent may be desirable to increase the expression or activity of Uba6 and or E2Z to higher levels than detected i.e. to increase the effectiveness of the agent. Alternatively decreased administration of the agent may be desirable to decrease expression or activity of Uba6 to lower levels than detected i.e. to decrease the effectiveness of the agent. According to such an embodiment Uba6 and or E2Z expression or activity may be used as an indicator of the effectiveness of an agent even in the absence of an observable phenotypic response.

This invention is further illustrated by the following examples which should not be construed as limiting. The contents of all references patents and published patent applications cited throughout this application are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

The E1 for ubiquitin is a member of a family of proteins that contains a protein fold the ThiF domain found in ancient metabolic enzymes in bacteria Lake et al. 2001 414 325 . Using this domain to identify related proteins bioinformatically a previously uncharacterized protein was identified with similarity to Ube1 the canonical E1 activating enzyme for ubiquitin GenBank Accession FLJ10808 Uba6. Uba6 orthologs exist in mouse rat and zebrafish Dr but are not found in non vertebrate metazoans or in yeast . Phylogenetically Uba6 is more distantly related to Ube1 than is Ube1L .

The ability of recombinant Uba6 expressed in and purified from insect cells to activate several ubiquitin like proteins as well as ubiquitin itself was examined. Surprisingly it was determined that Uba6 could activate ubiquitin but not any of the other ubiquitin like proteins tested as determined by the appearance of an Uba6 Ub thiol ester upon non reducing SDS PAGE analysis lane 4 . As expected the formation of Uba6 Ub could be reversed by the addition of DTT indicative of the presence of a thiol ester lanes 5 and 6 . The ability of Uba6 to promote ubiquitin activation appeared to be specific as Ube1L which is more closely related to Ube1 than is Uba6 was not capable of activating ubiquitin but was able to activate its known target ISG15 . Taken together these data indicate that Uba6 can promote the charging of ubiquitin but not a number of other ubiquitin like proteins.

The identification of Uba6 as an activating enzyme for ubiquitin was unexpected and therefore several experiments described below were performed to validate this conclusion. Initially the classical approaches of Hershko Hershko et al. 1983 258 8206 were used to purify Ube1 to examine whether Uba6 could be similarly purified. Extracts were made from 293T cells stably expressing Flag HA Uba6 and were incubated with ubiquitin agarose in the presence of ATP. Beads were subsequently washed with buffer lacking DTT and proteins then eluted with buffer containing DTT which reverses thiol esters between E1s and ubiquitin or ubiquitin like proteins. Load flow through washes and eluates as well as proteins remaining associated with the ubiquitin agarose beads were then subjected to immunoblotting with anti Ube1 to detect Ube1 and anti HA to detect Flag HA Uba6. The elution pattern of Uba6 closely paralleled that of Ube1 . In particular Uba6 was eluted specifically upon treatment with DTT. These data indicate that like Ube1 Uba6 can be chemically crosslinked to ubiquitin in a thiol dependent manner.

In order to validate the association between Uba6 and ubiquitin in vivo cell lines were developed that stably expressed three forms of Uba6 1 the wild type protein containing an N terminal Flag HA tag 2 the C625A mutant in which the catalytic cysteine was mutated to alanine also as an N terminal Flag HA fusion and 3 the C625S mutant in which the catalytic cysteine was mutated to serine also as an N terminal Flag HA fusion. Replacement of the active site cysteine with alanine was expected to inactivate the ability of the protein to promote ubiquitin activation. In contrast the cysteine to serine mutant was expected to support formation of an ester linked ubiquitin or ubiquitin like protein which is more stable that the thiol ester formed with cysteine. Indeed previous studies Komatsu et al. 2004 23 1977 have demonstrated that in certain cases more stable conjugates can be formed with ester linkages than with thiol ester linkages.

All three proteins were expressed at comparable levels upon analysis in SDS PAGE in the absence of reducing agents . While the wild type protein and the C625A mutant migrated at identical positions a large fraction of the C625S mutant protein displayed reduced mobility by SDS PAGE as observed by both immunoblotting with anti HA antibodies and by staining the membrane with Ponceau stain . These data indicate that Uba6 forms a stable ester with ubiquitin or a ubiquitin like protein via S625 in this mutant protein. To examine whether the slow mobility form of Uba6 might be carrying ubiquitin or the ubiquitin like protein Nedd8 an immunoblot was performed using anti ubiquitin or anti Nedd8 antibodies . While ubiquitin was detected in the slower mobility form of Uba6 when C625 was replaced by serine no ubiquitin was found with either the wild type protein or the C625A mutant protein indicating that the more slowly migrating form of the Uba6protein contained ubiquitin. In contrast Nedd8 was not detected although Nedd8 was clearly detected in an SCF complex used as a positive control .

Next additional confirmation that Uba6was conjugated to ubiquitin was sought. Preparative samples of Flag HA Uba6were purified from 293T cells stably expressing Flag HA Uba6under control of the CMV promoter. Approximately 30 of the isolated protein was determined to migrate at a position consistent with its modification by a ubiquitin like protein . Mass spectral analysis of the more slowly migrating protein identified three peptides from ubiquitin consistent with Uba6forming conjugates with ubiquitin. In contrast the more rapidly migrating form of the protein lacked peptides for ubiquitin. Neither form of Uba6contained peptides for any other ubiquitin like protein indicating that other ubiquitin like proteins were not able to be activated by Uba6 under these conditions.

To rule out any effects of overexpression on these results Flag HA Uba6 Flag HA Uba6and Flag HA Uba6were expressed at near endogenous levels from a lentiviral vector driven by the PGK promoter. Again the C625S mutant but not WT or C625A proteins expressed a more slowly migrating protein consistent with ubiquitination . Taken together these data indicate that Uba6 functions to activate ubiquitin in tissue culture cells.

Ube1 promotes the transfer of ubiquitin from its active site cysteine residue to the active site cysteine of an E2 ubiquitin conjugating enzyme. A subset of E2s are known to be activated by Ube1 although a small number of E2s are specific for transfer to ubiquitin like proteins E2M Ubc12 is charged by Nedd8 E2I Ubc9 is charged by SUMO and E2L Ubc8 is charged by ISG15 . To determine whether Uba6 was capable of transferring ubiquitin to one or more E2s more than two dozen E2s found in the human genome were cloned and in vitro charging assays were performed using non reducing SDS PAGE. In this assay charged E2s migrated more slowly than the uncharged E2s. Examples of charging assays are shown in and the data for all of the E2s studies is collected in . It was discovered that the specificity of Ube1 and Uba6 for these E2s was distinct. Neither Ube1 or Uba6 promoted charging of E2M E2M3 HSPC E2L6 E2U or E2I as expected. Ube1 selectively promoted charging of E2J1 E2J2 E2K E2Q2 E2R1 Cdc34 E2R2 Cdc34B and E2W while both Ube1 and Uba6 promoted charging of E2C E2D1 E2D2 E2D3 E2D4 E2E1 E2G E2S and E2T to varying degrees. Interestingly Uba6 but not Ube1 promoted charging of E2Z a previously uncharacterized E2 of unknown function. Without intending to be bound by theory these data indicate that Ube1 and Uba6 have distinct substrate specificities with respect to the E2s they charge and therefore may function in distinct pathways. Without intending to be bound by theory Uba6 may function with non canonical E2s i.e. E2s that cannot be identified through sequence relationships with the known E2s . Methods known in the art will be used to easily identify such proteins.

Previous studies with Uba3 a subunit of the E1 for Nedd8 have revealed that its C terminal ubiquitin fold is involved in recognizing its specific E2 Ubc12 Huang et al. 2004 11 927 . While the ThiF and catalytic domains of Ube1 and Uba6 are 43 identical their C terminal ubiquitin like domains are more distantly related 33 identical B . In contrast the Ubl domains in Uba6 are very highly conserved in Uba6 proteins from zebrafish to human 75 indicating selective pressure to maintain sequences in the C terminal Ubl domain of Uba6. To examine whether substrate selectivity of Uba6 relative to Uba1 may reflect its Ubl domain a Ubl domain swap experiment was performed . The Ubl domain of Ube1 was replaced with the Ubl domain from Uba6 and vice versa. While Ube1 could activate Cdc34 E2R1 Uba6 was defective in this activity. However Uba6 carrying the Ubl domain of Ube1 was active in Cdc34 charging. Consistent with this Ube1 containing the Ubl domain from Uba6 was defective in Cdc34 charging. Both Ube1 and Uba6 lacking their Ubl domains were defective for Cdc34 charging. These data indicate that the C terminal Ubl domains in Ube1 and Uba6 are important for the specificity of ubiquitin charging and that the Ubl domain of Uba6 is more discriminating than is the Ubl domain of Ube1.

In order to detect Uba6 in animal cells an antibody was developed against the C terminal Ubl domain. This antibody recognized a doublet of proteins at approximately 125 Kd the expected size of Uba6 in extracts from several cell lines including 293T cells . This antibody also reacted with purified Flag HA Uba6 which migrates slightly slower on SDS PAGE than does the endogenous protein due to the presence of an epitope tag. It was determined that three different siRNAs targeting Uba6 could greatly reduce its steady state levels . These data indicates that the activity function of Uba6 can be inhibited using RNAi.

An analysis of the activity of chimeric proteins replacement of the Ubl domain of Uba1 with the Ubl domain of Ube1 replacement of the Ubl domain from Ube1 with the Ubl domain of Uba6 toward Ubc5 which is charged by both Ube1 and Uba6 was performed. It was determined that while Uba6 and Ube1 lacking the Ubl domains were devoid of activity toward Ubc5 each of the chimeric proteins was active . These data indicate that the Ubl domains are interchangeable with respect to this shared E2. It also indicates that the absence of activity of the chimeras towards Cdc34 or E2Z was not because the protein is generally non functional. Importantly the Ube1 protein containing the Uba6 Ubl domain was still inactive toward E2Z indicating that additional structural features outside the Ubl domain may be required for specificity. Molecular modeling studies were also performed that indicated that the Ubl domains from both Uba6 and Ube1 fold into ubiquitin like folds .

An in vivo charging assay coupled with RNAi was used to deplete either Uba6 or Ube1. In the in vivo charging assay cell lysates were generated using buffers at pH 4.5 50 mM MES pH 4.5 0.5 NP40 100 mM NaCl and immediately subjected to non reducing SDS PAGE. Under these conditions the E2 thiol esters remained relatively stable allowing their separation by SDS PAGE. Charged and uncharged E2s were then detected by immunoblot. Because antibodies against E2Z were not available a cell line that stably expresses a Flag HA tagged version of E2Z was generated. As shown in a fraction of E2Z migrated slightly more slowly than the majority of the protein. This band was absent when a mutant form of E2Z was employed in which the active site cysteine was mutated to alanine and could not be ubiquitinated or when DTT was added to wild type E2Z which will reduce the thiol ester . As shown in using three different siRNAs to deplete Uba6 it was determined that in vivo charging of E2Z was completely dependent on Uba6. In contrast depletion of Ube1 had no effect on the extent of charging of E2Z. Ube1 depletion did however reduce the extent of charging of the Ube1 specific E2 Cdc34.

Humans chimps old world monkeys and zebrafish contain only a single UBE1 gene which in humans is located on the X chromosome. However in the mouse there appears to have been a duplication of the X linked UBE1 gene as there is a second gene located on the Y chromosome Levy et al. 2000 11 164 Mitchell et al. 1992 359 528 Odorisio et al. 1996 180 336 . The mouse Ube1y protein is 90 identical to mouse Ube1x and these proteins are located on the same clad of the E1 dendogram . In fact mouse Ube1y is more closely related to mouse Ube1x and the corresponding human Ube1 protein than is the zebrafish Ube1 protein . There are also UBE1 related sequences on rat chromosome Y but these sequences do not appear to constitute a complete UBE1 gene see GenBank ID 25225 . Multiple Ube1 orthologs exist in plants for example 2 genes in Hatfield et al. 1997 11 213 and three genes in wheat . Again the encoded E1 proteins within each species are closely related to each other 90 identical and form a single clad on the E1 dendogram . Previous studies have failed to identify differences in the functional properties of Ube1 related E1s indicating that these genes likely provide the same biochemical functions but in different cell types or in different developmental settings. Ube1 proteins have identical activities towards all E2s tested Hatfield et al. 1997 11 213 . In addition it was previously concluded that mouse Ube1y is expressed exclusively in the testes and its induction during spermatogenesis is thought to reflect a requirement for increased levels of conventional ubiquitin activating enzyme activity during this stage of development where the Ube1x protein is also expressed Odorisio et al. 1996 180 336 . In contrast human mouse and zebrafish Uba6 genes are more closely related to each other and distantly related to the Ube1 clad . Indeed the Uba6 proteins form their own clad consistent with the finding that human Uba6 and Ube1 play distinct roles in E2 charging in vivo .

In contrast to and which appear to lack Uba6 orthologs both Ube1 and Uba6 orthologs were identified in sea urchin XP795302 65 identity and XP780782 56 identity over 709 residues respectively .

The results presented herein indicate that Ube1 and Uba6 have the capability of interacting and charging different sets of E2 conjugating enzymes and based on deletion analysis and the analysis of chimeric proteins. The results presented herein also indicate that the C terminal Ubiquitin fold domain Ufd of Uba6 and Ube1 contribute to recruitment and or transthiolation of E2s . Currently there are no structures available for Ube1 Uba6 Use1 or Cdc34. Models of these proteins were built based on the structures of related proteins the Ufd from SUMO1 pdb code 1Y8Q for Uba6 and Ube1 UbcH1 1TTE in the case of Cdc34A and UbCH5B 2ESQ in the case of Use1. Models for Ufds and Cdc34 were generated using Modeller while models for Use1 were generated using Swissmodel. These models were then compared with the structure of the Uba3 Ucb12 complex 1Y8X Huang et al. 2005 17 341 in Pymol.

In the Ubc12 Uba3structure the N terminal helix Helix 1 of Ubc12 makes several contacts with the surface of a sheet in the Ufd composed primarily of S2 S3 and S4 . The surface of the Ufd sheet facing the Ubc12 helix is composed primarily of residues with small and or hydrophilic side chains A380 T382 T384 T391 A424 A426 . This facilitates interaction with Q31 L32 Q35 and N39 in the Ubc12 helix. R390 in the Uba3protrudes from the opposite side of the sheet and makes contacts with D427 in the L2 loop of Ubc12 . Structure based alignment of Uba6 and Ube1 with the SUMO1 Ufd fold and Use1 and Cdc34A with the UBC fold provides models of Uba6 Use1 and Ube1Cdc34 complex . Although it is not possible to directly discern the structural basis for specificity from these models it is possible to identify differences between Ufd and UBC sequences within the presumptive interface which may participate in specificity. First the sheet surfaces of the three Ufds have distinct charge distributions . The Uba3is the most basic blue followed by the Ube1 and the Uba6. Moreover the Uba3has an acidic patch red not seen in the Ufds from Uba6 or Ube1. In contrast to the H1 helix of Ubc12 the H1 helix of Use1 is much more hydrophobic in character consistent with the more hydrophobic character of the predicted S2 and S3 sheets in the Uba6compared with the Uba3 . The L2 loop of Use1 likely makes interactions with the S3 and H2 in the Uba6but uncertainties in the structural prediction make it impossible to assess these potential interactions. The predicted structure of the Ube1contains a poorly modeled segment which clashes with H1 of Cdc34 when superimposed on the Uba3 Ubc12 structure . Nevertheless it is possible to identify both similarities and differences in the interface residues that may make contacts in the respective interfaces. For example R1029 at the end of S4 in Ube1 corresponds to D1023 in Uba6 and A426 in Uba3 . In addition L997 in S2 of Ube1 corresponding to V986 in Uba6 and T384 in Uba3 . Likewise significant differences exist in the residues in H1 of the respective specific E2s .

Although differences in residues predicted to be at the interface of the E2 and the Ufd for the complexes analyzed here are evident without intending to be bound by theory it is believed based on the data presented herein that specificity in this system is unlikely to reflect one or a small number of changes in amino acids at the interface between E2 and Ufd. First an in depth analysis of E2 sequences especially the N terminal helix which binds Ufds failed to identify classes of residues that might segregate E2s into distinct classes related to the E1s that they function with Winn et al. 2004 12 1563 . Second extensive alanine scanning mutagenesis of the Ubc12 Uba3 Ufd interaction indicates that many residues will contribute to the interaction. For example mutation of 8 of 9 interface residues in Ubc12 reduced or abolished its charging by Nedd8 Huang et al. 2005 17 341 Huang et al. 2007 445 394 . Likewise mutation of 4 of 5 residues on the interaction surface of Uba3 s Ufd reduced charging of Ubc12 Huang et al. 2005 17 341 . Thus structural analysis will likely be required to address this important and interesting question.

Open reading frames for Ube1 Uba6 E2 ubiquitin conjugating enzymes and ubiquitin like proteins were amplified by PCR from either cDNA templates or cDNA libraries and cloned into pENTR D Topo Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. . These open reading frames were then transferred to the indicated destination plasmids using recombination mediated cloning with CLONASE Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. . Mutations were created using PCR based mutagenesis. All open reading frames were sequenced in their entirety. Baculoviruses expressing GST Ube1L and GST MP1 were provided by Brenda Schulman St. Jude Children s Research Hospital Memphis Tenn. .

Unless otherwise noted open reading frames were cloned into pENTR TOPO Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. and transferred into the appropriate expression plasmid using in vitro recombination with Clonase Invitrogen . The pHAGE Flag HA vector puromycin resistant places the open reading frame under control of the PGK promoter. Open reading frames for E2s were placed into vectors containing T7 promoters and an N terminal His 6 tag. For expression of Use1 in bacteria the Use1 open reading frame NM023079 was cloned into pENTR 2 containing a TEV protease cleavage site upstream of the open reading frame and transferred into pDEST 15 N terminal GST tag from Invitrogen . The annotated open reading frame for Use1 referred to as UBE2Z Gu X. et al. Cloning and characterization of a gene encoding the human putative ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2Z UBE2Z . Mol Biol Rep 2006 is incorrect as determined by the size of the endogenous protein detected using anti Use1 antibodies and by DNA sequence analysis. The actual open reading frame initiates 109 amino acids prior to the annotated start site . The sequences of all the genes examined are collected in .

Analysis of mRNA expression for Uba6 Ube1 and Use1 was performed using the Genomics Institute of the Novartis Research Foundation transcriptional profiling resource Su et al. 2002 99 4465 Su et al. 2004 101 6062 . This analysis employed GNF1H chips in combination with the MASS transcriptional profiling algorithm Su et al. 2004 101 6062 .

Uba6 and Use1 antibodies were generated in rabbits using a GST Uba6 fusion protein residues 869 1052 and GST Use1 respectively made in bacteria. Antibodies were affinity purified prior to use. The specificity of antibodies was determined by RNAi against Uba6 Use1.

For production of proteins in insect cells recombinant baculoviruses were used to infect Sf9 cells 40 h and cleared cell extracts in lysis buffer 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 0.5 mM DTT 150 mM NaCl 0.5 Nonidet P40 protease inhibitors Roche were bound to anti Flag or GSH Sepharose beads. Washed beads were eluted with Flag peptide 500 g ml or with glutathione 40 mM and the protein dialyzed against 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 0.5 mM DTT 150 mM NaCl 50 glycerol. Bacterial expression was performed in Rosetta DE3 cells using 0.4 mM IPTG induction for 3 h at 37 C. Cells were disrupted in lysis buffer prior to purification using GSH Sepharose. All GST UBL proteins were found to contain the appropriate C termini by mass spectrometry.

Unless otherwise noted expression of proteins in mammalian cells was accomplished by viral transduction using Gateway compatible pHAGE lentiviral based vectors. Vectors were packaged in 293T cells and used to transduce the indicated cell line prior to selection with puromycin. For immunoprecipitation extracts were generated in lysis buffer prior to incubation with the indicated antibodies. Proteins were separated on 4 12 Tris glycine gradient gels Invitrogen . To examine E2 charging cells were lysed in 50 mM MES 150 mM NaCl 0.2 Nonidet P40 protease inhibitors Roche Indianapolis Ind. pH 3 5 as indicated buffer and cleared by centrifugation. Ten g of extract was subjected to non reducing Novex 4 12 Bis Tris gel prior to immunoblotting. In cases where RNAi was employed cells were transfected with the indicated siRNAs 33 nM using Oligofectamine Invitrogen . After 72 hours cells were lysed as described above to examine E2 charging. The sequences of siRNAs are provided herein. In order to examine thioesters between ubiquitin and Flag HA Uba6 cells expressing Flag HA Uba6 wild type or the C625A mutant were lysed in 50 mM MES pH 4.5 150 mM NaCl 0.2 Nonidet P40 protease inhibitors and extracts subjected to immunoprecipitation with anti HA agarose. Immune complexes were washed with lysis buffer pH 4.5 eluted with HA peptide and then subjected to electrophoresis on a 412 Bis Tris gel in the absence of reducing agent. In some cases samples were treated with 200 mM DTT prior to electrophoresis in order to reduce thioester bonds. Gels were transferred to PVDF and probed with the indicated antibodies or in some cases bands were excised and subjected to mass spectrometry as described below.

For ubiquitin activation the indicated E1 8 nM was incubated with 100 nM GSTUBL and 2 mM ATP in reaction buffer 50 mM Tris HCl 5 mM KCl 5 mM MgCl for 15 minutes at 30 C. total volume 10 A the reaction quenched by addition of 2 Laemli sample buffer lacking reducing agent and immediately subjected to non reducing 4 12 Tris glycine gel and immunoblotting. To measure the kinetics of ubiquitin activation reactions were performed with 8 nM E1 and 0.5 M ubiquitin for the indicated time at 30 C. and immunoblots quantified using CCD detection of chemiluminescence. This was accomplished using an Alpha Innotech FlourChem 8900 instrument. In experiments where the dependent on GST ubiquitin concentration was determined the GST ubiquitin concentrations were 0 7.5 15 30 60 120 240 and 480 nM and the reaction time was 10 minutes. The average reaction rates for 2 independent experiments are shown together with the standard deviation. To examine E2 charging the indicated E2 was in vitro translated using a bacterial S30 extract Promega in the presence of S methionine. Bacterial S30 extracts lack ubiquitin activating and conjugating enzymes which could interfere with he assays. Radiolabeled E2 1 l was incubated with 40 nM of the indicated E1 25 M lysine free ubiquitin Boston Biochem Waltham Mass. 2 mM ATP in reaction buffer 15 min 30 C. 10 A total volume . Reactions were analyzed as described for ubiquitin activation. In some experiments Use1 purified from bacteria was employed. Ube1 was released from GST TEV Use1 using TEV protease and the eluted Use1 dialyzed against 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 0.5 mM DTT 150 mM NaCl 50 glycerol. Capture of Uba6 and Ube1 using ubiquitin Sepharose was performed as described previously Pickart et al. 1985 260 1573 Ciechanover et al. 1982 257 2537 using extracts from cells stably expressing Flag HA Uba6.

Unless otherwise stated mass spectrometry was performed on peptides produced by in gel trypsinization using a Thermo Electron LTQ mass spectrometer. Searches were performed using Sequest. For determination of C termini in GST UBL fusion proteins 2 g of protein was excised from SDS PAGE gels and digested with the protease indicated. Digested peptides were then subjected to LC MS MS under conditions where 3250 MS MS scans were obtained for each LC MS MS run. The predicted C terminal peptides as well as XCorr and dCn scores for the match with the predicted spectra. For analysis of peptides from Flag HA Uba6 Ub purified from mammalian cells trypsinized samples were subjected to LC MS MS using an LTQ Orbitrap instrument to identify peptides with high mass accuracy. Tandem mass spectra were first searched using Sequest against the human genome identifying peptides against ubiquitin and Uba6 but not other ubiquitin like proteins. In order to more effectively rule out the presence of additional UBLs a focused database containing protein sequences for human ubiquitin Nedd8 SUMO 1 SUMO 2 SUMO 3 Fub1 Fat10 Urm1 Ufm1 Gdx Isg15 and Apg12 was searched using a 100 mass unit filter facilitated by the high mass accuracy afforded by orbitrap detection . Peptides corresponding to only ubiquitin were obtained see making it extremely unlikely that Uba6 efficiently charges UBLs in addition to ubiquitin.

For production of proteins in insect cells recombinant baculoviruses were used to infect Sf9 cells 40 hours and cleared cell extracts in lysis buffer 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 0.5 mM DTT 150 mM NaCl 0.5 Nonidet P40 protease inhibitors Roche were bound to anti Flag or GSH Sepharose beads. Washed beads were eluted with Flag peptide 500 g ml or with glutathione 40 mM and the protein dialyzed against 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 0.5 mM DTT 150 mM NaCl 50 glycerol. Bacterial expression was performed in Rosetta DE3 cells using 0.4 mM IPTG induction for 3 h at 37 C. Cells were disrupted in lysis buffer prior to purification using GSH Sepharose. All GST UBL proteins were found to contain the appropriate C termini by mass spectrometry.

Unless otherwise noted expression of proteins in mammalian cells was accomplished by viral transduction using Gateway compatible pHAGE lentiviral based vectors. Vectors were packaged in 293T cells and used to transduce the indicated cell line prior to selection with puromycin. For immunoprecipitation extracts were generated in lysis buffer prior to incubation with the indicated antibodies. Proteins were separated on 4 12 Tris glycine gradient gels Invitrogen . To examine E2 charging cells were lysed in 50 mM MES 150 mM NaCl 0.2 Nonidet P40 protease inhibitors Roche Indianapolis Ind. pH 3 5 as indicated buffer and cleared by centrifugation. Ten g of extract was subjected to non reducing Novex 4 12 Bis Tris gel prior to immunoblotting. In cases where RNAi was employed cells were transfected with the indicated siRNAs 33 nM using Oligofectamine Invitrogen . After 72 hours cells were lysed as described above to examine E2 charging. The sequences of siRNAs are provided herein. In order to examine thioesters between ubiquitin and Flag HA Uba6 cells expressing Flag HA Uba6 wild type or the C625A mutant were lysed in 50 mM MES pH 4.5 150 mM NaCl 0.2 Nonidet P40 protease inhibitors and extracts subjected to immunoprecipitation with anti HA agarose. Immune complexes were washed with lysis buffer pH 4.5 eluted with HA peptide and then subjected to electrophoresis on a 412 Bis Tris gel in the absence of reducing agent. In some cases samples were treated with 200 mM DTT prior to electrophoresis in order to reduce thioester bonds. Gels were transferred to PVDF and probed with the indicated antibodies or in some cases bands were excised and subjected to mass spectrometry as described below.

Tissue culture cells were grown in Dulbecco s Modified Eagle Medium at 37 C. in 5 CO. To generate cell lines stably expressing Flag HA Uba6 or relevant mutants the Uba6 ORFs were recombined into either pHAGE CMV Flag HA GAW or pHAGE PGK Flag HA GAW and viruses were packaged using standard lentivirus packaging procedures. Viral supernatants were used to infect 293T cells at a multiplicity of infection of approximately 0.5. Cells were selected for integration using puromycin.

For expression of GST ubiquitin and ubiquitin like proteins in E. coli BL21 DE3 cells Novagen Madison Wis. were transformed with the appropriate expression plasmid pDEST 27 Invitrogen and plasmids selected using carbocyclin. Cells were grown to 0.8 OD and induced with 0.4 mM IPTG. After three hours cells were harvested lysed in 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 150 mM NaCl 1 mM EDTA 0.5 NP40 and subjected to centrifugation at 12 000 g. Extracts were subjected to purification using GSH Sepharose Pharmacia Piscataway N.J. . After washing the beads with lysis buffer proteins were eluted using 0.1 M Tris HCl pH 8 and 40 mM glutathione. To translate E2s in vitro coding sequences in vectors containing a T7 promoter were transcribed and translated using an E. coli in vitro translation system Promega in the presence of S methionine. Proteins were then employed in thiolester assays as described below.

For expression in insect cells ORF clones were recombined with baculoviral sequences using Bac N Blue Invitrogen via co transfection of Sf9 cells and viral supernatants isolated three days after transfection. Viral stocks were amplified in Sf9 cells. For protein production Sf9 cells were infected with viral stocks and cells were lysed after 40 hours using 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 150 mM NaCl 1 mM EDTA and 0.5 NP40 in the presence of proteasome inhibitors Roche Basel Switzerland . Extracts were cleared by centrifugation and lysates were incubated with either anti Flag Sigma St. Louis Mo. or GSH Sepharose Pharmacia Piscataway N.J. resins. Resins were washed with lysis buffer prior to elution with either Flag peptide Sigma or glutathione as described above. Proteins were dialyzed against 50 mM Tris HCl 50 mM NaCl and 50 glycerol at 4 C. for 2 hours and stored at 80 C.

To examine ubiquitin activation Ube1 or Uba6 100 ng was incubated in 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 50 mM NaCl and 4 mM ATP for the time indicated above in the presence of 10 g ubiquitin or ubiquitin like protein final volume of 10 l . Reaction mixtures were subjected to non reducing SDS PAGE at the indicated times. Gels were either stained with Coomassie or subjected to immunoblotting with the antibodies indicated above.

To examine transfer of ubiquitin from Uba6 to an E2 a thiol ester assay was performed. Reactions were performed as described above except that 2 l of in vitro translated and S methionine labeled E2 was added. After the indicated time reaction mixtures were subjected to non reducing SDS PAGE and dried gels subjected to autoradiography to visualize the E2 protein and their thiol ubiquitin forms. In some experiments ubiquitin lacking lysine residues UbKO was employed.

In order to examine ubiquitin conjugates for Uba6 in mammalian cells the indicated cell lines stably or transiently expressing Uba6 or mutants were lysed. Cleared lysates were subjected to immunoprecipitation using anti HA resin. After washing the resin with lysis buffer proteins were subjected to non reducing SDS PAGE and immunoblotting with the indicated antibodies. In certain cases gels were stained with Coomassie and proteins excised prior to mass spectrometry at the Taplin Mass Spectrometry Core Facility Harvard Medical School .

Ubiquitin activation assays contained 8 nM E1 100 nM GST UBL and 2 mM ATP in 50 mM Tris HCl 5 mM KCl 5 mM MgClfor 15 min at 30 C. total volume 10 l . Reactions were quenched with 2 Laemli sample buffer lacking reducing agent and subjected to non reducing 4 12 Tris glycine gel and immunoblotting. To examine E2 charging the indicated E2 was in vitro translated using a bacterial S30 extract Promega Madison Wis. in the presence of S methionine. E2 1 l was incubated with 40 nM E1 25 M KO ubiquitin Boston Biochem Waltham Mass. 2 mM ATP 15 min 30 C. 10 l total volume before 4 12 Tris glycine gel autoradiography.

For immunoprecipitation cell extracts were generated in pH 7.5 lysis buffer 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 150 mM NaCl 0.5 Nonidet P40 protease inhibitors Roche Indianapolis Ind. or pH 4.5 lysis buffer 50 mM MES pH 4.5 150 mM NaCl 0.2 Nonidet P40 protease inhibitors . Proteins were separated on non reducing 4 12 Tris glycine or 4 12 Bis Tris gradient gels prior to blotting or mass spectrometry. To examine E2 charging in vivo cells were lysed in 50 mM MES pH 3 to 5 as indicated 150 mM NaCl 0.2 Nonidet P40 protease inhibitors and cleared by centrifugation. Extracts 10 g were subjected to non reducing 4 12 Bis Tris gel prior to immunoblotting. Where indicated extracts were boiled 5 minutes with 200 mM dithiothreitol DTT . For RNAi cells were transfected using Oligofectamine Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. . After 72 hours cells were lysed as described herein. siRNA sequences siUba6 1 CCTTGGAAGAGAAGCCTGATGTAAA SEQ ID NO 10 siUba6 2 ACACTGAAGTTATTG TACCGCATTT SEQ ID NO 11 siUba6 3 GGGATCGATGGACCGTACATGGAAA SEQ ID NO 12 siUbe1 1 GAGAAGCTGGGCAAGCAGAAGTATT SEQ ID NO 13 siUbe1 2 CCGACAGCTTGACTCC TACAAGAAT SEQ ID NO 14 siUbe1 3 TCCTCAACTTGGCCCTGCCTTTCTT SEQ ID NO 15 .

