---

title: Double number service
abstract: Embodiments disclosed herein describe a double number service configured to allow a mobile or landline subscriber to receive an additional telephone number that is configured to make and receive communications such as telephone calls and text messages. Telecommunications systems and methods disclosed herein are configured to utilize a virtual phone number or double numbers, which a user may subscribe to, to publish and/or communicate to other users. The user may also subscribe to multiple virtual numbers, and use the virtual numbers on a single device. Accordingly, an end user may receive communications to an assigned number from a telecommunications service provider and the virtual or double number on the same telecommunications device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08781521&OS=08781521&RS=08781521
owner: Rockville Technologies Private Limited
number: 08781521
owner_city: Islamabad
owner_country: PK
publication_date: 20120620
---
This application claims priority to Pakistani patent application number 458 2011 filed Jun. 21 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates to systems and methods within the field of telecommunications. More specifically the disclosure relates to double numbers on a telecommunications network.

Generally existing telecommunication service companies will assign an end user with a telephone number. The end user may receive and or transmit phone calls and Short Message Service SMS messages to other users via the assigned identification number. Along with desired communications the end user may also receive unwanted calls such as from telemarketers. However the unwanted calls may not be blocked via call blockers unless the call blockers also block important desired communications as well.

In conventional telecommunications systems an end user is assigned a single number for a specific device the end user may be unable to maintain different connections and communicate. For example an end user may have a telephone number for work or official business and a telephone number for personal use however the end user may not be able to receive or transmit communications for both numbers on a single device.

It is to be understood that both the following summary and the detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further explanation of the invention as claimed. Neither the summary nor the description that follows is intended to define or limit the scope of the invention to the particular features mentioned in the summary or in the description. In certain embodiments the disclosed embodiments may include one or more of the features described herein.

Embodiments disclosed herein describe a double number service configured to allow a mobile or landline subscriber to receive an additional telephone number double number that is configured to make and receive communications such as telephone calls and text messages. Telecommunications systems and methods disclosed herein are configured to utilize a virtual phone number or double numbers which a user may subscribe to publish and or communicate to other user via the virtual phone number.

The user may also subscribe to multiple double numbers and use the double numbers on a single device. Accordingly an end user may receive communications to an assigned number from a telecommunications service provider and the virtual or double number on the same telecommunications device.

Primary numbers usually stay with a mobile subscriber for a very long time and as a result the owner may be hesitant to share that number openly on business cards or in newspaper advertisement when they are selling something. A double number allows them to give out a Full MSISDN to people they do not know well or in newspaper advertisements without exposing their primary number to incessant calls from people they do not know well or from past newspaper advertisements posted for items already sold. When a call is received on a double number it may show up with 66 or other prefix before the caller s mobile number MSISDN therefore allowing the user to clearly identify that for example this call needs to be ignored because the double number was listed in the newspaper.

The system allows users to setup 2 different circles. For example a user s work number could be the user s double number and the user s primary number could be for friends and family. This way users do not need to carry two different phones or purchase a two sim phone because they can immediately identify that if the incoming call has the 66 prefix then it is for work and can choose not to take it after working hours or treat it with priority and answer it. Similarly once a user leaves the job they can disconnect the double number without losing their primary number and that way they will never receive calls related to their past employer on their personal number etc.

Any telephone call or communication to or from a double number may be routed via any means to a platform that may determine an end user s preferences associated with the double number to proceed with any communication. In one embodiment the preferences may include bridging a telephone communication SMS message or call to the end user s active phone number or double number based on a time of day or calling number pattern or forwarding a received call to the end user s voicemail associated with either a double number or assigned number with or without the end user listening to the call receiving a menu of options before the end user is connected to the call audibly outputting the name of a caller on a speaker on the device in the voice of the caller for better recognition of the caller blocking a telephone call etc.

In other example embodiments a virtual number may be provisioned or allocated to an existing subscriber identity module SIM and or mobile station international subscriber directory number MSISDN . The platform may be configured to provision or allocate double numbers via SMS unstructured supplementary service data USSD interactive voice response IVR electronic mail via a web based graphical interface or any other known data communications means for automatic number assignments from a double number pool. In other embodiments based on account information from a sales office such as a type of telephone plan the platform may assign special double numbers such as user configured double numbers or numbers with matching digits if the desired virtual number exists in the virtual number pool.

In further embodiments an end user may use either the number assigned by a service provider or double number to make receive telephone calls and send SMS messages.

In another embodiment the IVR may be configured for simpler deployment and integration with existing telecommunication equipment.

In further example embodiments the platform may be configured to receive a telephone call or sms from a double number subscriber via a prefix number to allow the double number subscriber to initiate a telephone call or sms using the double number as the caller id for the telephone call or sender id for the sms. Upon a second user receiving a call from a double number subscriber using the double number the second user may call the double number subscriber back via the associated double number.

Embodiments may be configured to allow for automatic and seamless integration with any existing telecommunication value added services VAS that do not require dialing prefixes for services such as ring back tones missed call alerts etc.

In further embodiments platforms may be configured to perform call and or SMS blocking and filtering for a primary number assigned by a service provider and or a double number. The blocking and filtering may be set up via IVR SMS commands or any other interface such as a graphical web based user interface or via email.

Further features for a double number service may include the following for communications to and from the double number subscriber 

A new double number system which may be embodied on a server includes a database configured to include a mapping of subscribers each entry within the mapping including a primary number and a double number for a double number subscriber a receiver configured to receive data associated with a communication from the double number subscriber to a receiving party the data including the primary number associated with the double number subscriber and a receiving party number associated with the receiving party a processor configured to determine if the communication is associated with the double number subscriber and to modify the data to include the double number for the double number subscriber and a transmitter to include transmit data including the double number for the double number subscriber and the receiving party number.

The received data may include prefix information preceding the primary number associated with the double number subscriber. The processor may be configured to determine if the communication is associated with the double number subscriber based on the prefix information and the mapping. The prefix information may be the same for each double number subscriber. The double number may be configured to be displayed at a device associated with the receiving party. The communication may be one of a short message service message or a telephone call. The primary number may be assigned by a service provider and the double number may be assigned by the double number server. The double number subscriber may have a plurality of double numbers.

A new double number system which may be embodied on a server includes a database configured to include a mapping of subscribers each entry within the mapping including a primary number and a double number for a double number subscriber a receiver configured to receive data associated with a communication from a first party to the double number subscriber the data including a primary number associated with the first party and the double number for the double number subscriber a processor configured to determine if the communication is associated with the double number subscriber and to modify the data to include the primary number for the double number subscriber and a transmitter configured to transmit data including the primary number for the double number subscriber and the primary number associated with the first party.

The data the transmitter is configured to transmit may include prefix information preceding the primary number associated with the first party. The processor may be configured to determine if the communication is associated with the double number subscriber based on the received data including the double number for the double number subscriber and the mapping. The processor may be further configured to block the transmitter from transmitting data based on user preferences the user preferences being stored within the mapping. The user preferences may be one of blocking user requested numbers and blocking numbers according to a time of day. The primary number of the first may be configured to be displayed along with prefix information at a device associated with the double number subscriber the prefix information indicating that the communication was to be communication to the double number. The communication may be one of a short message service message or a telephone call. The primary number may be assigned by a service provider and the double number may be assigned by the double number server. The double number subscriber may have a plurality of double numbers.

A new double number system which may be embodied on a server includes a database configured to include a pool of double numbers a processor configured to receive a request from a user for a double number within the pool of double numbers and to assign one of the double numbers based on the request the user request including a primary number assigned by a service provider and an index configured to include a mapping of the primary number at least the double number assigned to a subscriber and user preferences of the user. The user preferences may be one of blocking numbers for user requested numbers and blocking numbers according to a time of day. The request may include a desire to be assigned to a specific double number.

In a new double number method data associated with a communication from a double number subscriber to a receiving party is received where the data includes the primary number associated with the double number subscriber and a receiving party number associated with the receiving party the communication is determined to be associated with the double number subscriber and the data is modified to include the double number for the double number subscriber and data is transmitted including the double number for the double number subscriber and the receiving party number. The received data may include prefix information preceding the primary number associated with the double number subscriber and determining that the communication is associated with the double number subscriber may be based on prefix information and mapping a primary number to a double number for a double number subscriber.

In a new double number method data associated with a communication from a first party to the double number subscriber is received the data including a primary number associated with the first party and the double number for the double number subscriber the communication is determined to be associated with the double number subscriber and the data is modified to include the primary number for the double number subscriber and data is transmitted including the primary number for the double number subscriber and the primary number associated with the first party.

In a new double number method a request is received from a user for a double number within a pool of double numbers and one of the double numbers is assigned based on the request the user request including a primary number assigned by a service provider and the primary number is mapped at least to the double number assigned to a subscriber and user preferences of the user.

Detailed example embodiments are disclosed herein. However specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are merely representative for purposes of describing example embodiments. Example embodiments may be embodied in many alternate forms and should not be construed as limited to only the embodiments set forth herein. Example embodiments are capable of various modifications equivalents and alternatives. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout the description of the figures.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be termed a first element without departing from the scope of example embodiments As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it may be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. .

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of example embodiments. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions acts noted may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two figures shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

A double telephone number may allow a user utilizing a mobile device or landline connection to maintain connections to a plurality of telephone numbers simultaneously. Any call or communication from or to a double number may be routed to a platform or server configured to check and or determine preferences or configurations associated with a user assigned to the double number and route the communication. The double number service may be configured to be deployed on multiple servers with redundancy communicably coupled to a telecommunications service provider. The double number service may be configured to be coupled over any known telecommunications medium for SMS IVR access and telephone communications.

System may include a device base station mobile station controller MSC system server system internet and platform .

Device may be either a mobile device or a landline communicatively connected device communicatively coupled to a base station supporting a network such as a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA wireless network Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or any other known network configuration. Device may operate by transmitting or receiving communications with network via base station .

Base station may be associated with a service provider generally providing communicating data to device . Typically device will register with an available network associated base station for a service provider associated with device . The service provider will then assign device a primary identification such as a primary telephone number.

Network may be configured to communicate with a mobile station controller MSC system allowing device to conduct various voice text and other data communications with other devices such as mobile telephones and or landline telephones. As one skilled in the art will understand although network is illustrated within only one base station network may include a large number of base stations telecommunications networks and servers that extend across varying geographic regions.

Upon network receiving a communication from a device network may forward the communication to MSC system . MSC system may be configured to provide support for communications from device such as by routing calls and text messages. MSC System may include a short message service center SMSC configured to provide service for SMS messages and a MSC configured to provide service for telephone calls.

Communicatively coupled to MSC system may be server system . Server system may facilitate initiated communications e.g. a phone call or SMS message from device via MSC . Thus server system may generally provide a platform for or otherwise generally support data or processes associated with allowing a device to communicate with other networked devices. Server system may include an SMS server IVR server and an application server . Application server may be communicatively coupled to SMS server and IVR server and may be configured to provide services such as security services transaction support load balancing and management of data traffic within server system .

SMS server may be communicably coupled to SMSC via an Ethernet or any other known network to receive text or data messages. IVR server may be connected to MSC over a telecommunications network such as a digital telecommunications network time division multiplexing network CDMA 3G network voice over IP network etc. to receive telephone communications. Upon receiving a communication to or from device server system may determine if the communication is to or from a double number. If it is determined that the call is to or from a double number server system may forward the communication to double number server over network or internet . In one example embodiment double number server may be coupled to server system via virtual private number VPN . All incoming calls SMS traffic to a number within a series allocated to double numbers will be tagged flagged or identified by an MSC system as a double number. For outgoing calls from a double number a caller may enter prefix information before dialing a desired telephone number and calls SMS traffic with the prefix information may be routed to double number server .

Double number server may be configured to provision double numbers to device and provide support for double number subscribers. To provision a double number to device double number server may request or allocate a number series for double numbers being used by MSC system . For example double number server may request that a series of double numbers from 0333 0000000 to 0333 0009999 be allocated. This series may be defined as an 11 digit IVR extended short code with 0333000 prefix on all MSC s . However in other embodiments different extended short codes or series or numbers may be allocated based on network settings. For example for a telephone system in the United States double number server may request a series of double numbers from 321 555 0000 to 321 555 9999 be allocated.

Double number server may include a double number database configured to store available double numbers. Upon receiving a request from a device for a double number double number server may perform a query on double number database to determine available double numbers. Then double number server may assign the next available double number to device . In further example embodiments a request for a double number may include a request for specific double numbers such as user configured double numbers or numbers with matching digits.

Double number server may also include a database look up table or index . Each entry within the database or look up table may include an assigned double number a primary telephone number assigned to device customer information and customer preferences. Customer preferences may be associated with a double number and may be information such as a schedule of the customer. One such customer preference may be associated with a professional subscriber to a double number who may set a schedule between 9 pm to 5 pm. Calls to the double number that are sent outside of this time period will not be connected or will be routed to voicemail. Therefore calls to the double number of the subscriber will not annoy the customer in the evening or night without having to switch off device while calls to the primary number associated with the service provider may still be connected. Further customer information may include billing reminders subscriber length of current paid for subscription and notification preferences.

In S a subscriber may send a request for a double number to base station . The request may be an SMS message with a predetermined or allocated double number request identifier. For example in one embodiment the double number request identifier may be an SMS message with an identifier 661 .

In S SMSC may receive the SMS message with the double number request identifier from subscriber and the primary telephone number associated with device . SMSC server may parse the SMS message and determine that the message includes a double number request identifier then SMSC Server may forward the request for a double number to SMS server in S which may forward the request to double number server along with the primary telephone number associated with the subscriber via the SMPP Large Account LA the LA of the SMPP protocol over TCP IP is used by an SMS server to send and receive SMS with an SMSC

In S double number server may receive data associated with the request for the double number and the primary telephone number associated with the subscriber . Double number server may then allocate the next available number to subscriber . A mapping of the allocated double number and the telephone number associated with the subscriber may then he stored in a look up table or database within double number server . In further embodiments the allocation of a double number to any telecom subscriber may follow an established policy which could be based on the region of the primary number or the location of the subscriber at the time of subscription.

In S double number server may communicate the allocated double number to subscriber via SMS server SMSC and base station . For example the double number may be communicated from double number server to subscriber via SMS.

One skilled in the art will understand that the double number request may be made via IVR a mobile web interface unstructured supplementary service data USSR interface or a help line call instead of an SMS message. In further embodiments the subscriber may request a second double number via an SMS message IVR a mobile web interface or a help line call.

In further embodiments if the telecommunication service provider has a policy regarding number retention by a customer in the event of termination of service or non payment of a service fee with a time period that the subscriber has to reestablish services with the service provider then the customer may retain or get the same double number if he re subscribes before the time period lapses. As such the subscriber may be given a grace period after non payment of a service fee before service for the double number is terminated. Therefore the policy will dictate the time period that a double number remains or is kept in the system so that the double number is not allocated to any other subscriber. If the subscriber does not re apply for the double number within the grace period policies for recycling double numbers may be provided so that all possible precautions are taken before a double number is reallocated to a different subscriber. For example the precautions may include purging all system data relevant to the previous subscriber or the double number.

If the double number service is not available for all number types for a service provider then care or precaution may be given when changing primary number types which may terminate the double number services for users converting their numbers. If a subscriber identity module SIM is recycled care or precaution should be taken to make sure the SIM was not associated with a double number subscriber and if the SIM was associated with a double number subscriber then all data associated with the double number subscriber should be purged on the system to avoid getting erroneously affiliated with the prior double number subscriber.

In further example embodiments to terminate and or end service for a double number a subscriber may submit a double number server termination request via SMS IVR or a help line call to a customer care representative. Upon the double number platform receiving the service termination request the double number may be marked or flagged as inactive for purging at a later time. The double number associated with the termination request may then be re allocated to another subscriber however the double number may be reallocated at a later time. As such in one embodiment the double number associated with the terminated request may be placed as the last entry within the available double number pool.

As shown below in and telephone calls in both directions to and from a double number subscriber are in one embodiment calls to an IVR system and hence may be determined within double number server . Double number server may be configured to gather information for the caller and callee with respect to number mapping status blocking etc. If the call is in order to be completed voice channels may then be bridged. However the call from the caller to callee is only completed if the callee picks up the phone which may avoid billing in case the callee is unavailable while playing an unavailability recording or audio to the caller if available.

In S subscriber may desire to complete a telephone call to another party . Subscriber may dial the telephone number of party along with prefix information identifying that subscriber desires to utilize an associated double number. Accordingly subscriber may dial a prefix 66 and then the primary telephone number of party 03335552222 .

In S Base Station Controller BSC may receive a request that subscriber desires to complete a call to party . This request may include the prefix information the primary telephone number of party and the primary telephone number of subscriber . BSC may then forward this request to MSC .

In S MSC may receive the request from BSC and parse the request and determine if the call includes prefix information or a starting sequence indicating that the call is to be completed utilizing a double number. If the call does indicate that the call is to be completed utilizing a double number then MSC may forward the request to double number server .

In S double number server may receive the request to complete a call utilizing a double number from MSC . Double number server may then apply rules to determine if the call is to be allowed. The rules applied may be routing rules stored on the server and defined by a subscriber user by calling the IVR interface or via a web interface. They may include whitelisting or blacklisting of specific MSISDNs Numbers for calls and SMS and also time scheduling where the double number is turned off for a specified time via a weekly schedule or is turned off at any time via SMS IVR. All such rules may be checked before a call or SMS is received and if any rule is violated then the call SMS may be blocked.

If the call is to be allowed double number server may modify the request via rules user preferences and mappings within database so that the telephone number associated with subscriber is the double number. More specifically the request received by double number server from MSC may indicate that the call is from the primary number associated with subscriber and that the outgoing call included prefix information. Due to the prefix information associated with the outgoing call double number server may then locate a corresponding double number to the primary number of subscriber within a database. Double number server may then modify the outgoing call request to include the double number of subscriber instead of the primary number of subscriber .

In S MSC may receive an outbound call request including the double number of subscriber and the telephone number of associated with party and forward the call request to BSC .

In S BSC may receive the call request and forward the call request to a device associated with party . The call request may include the identification of the double number for subscriber instead of the primary number.

In S party may receive the call request along with an identification that the call is from the double number for subscriber . Thus for example caller ID would indicate the caller s number to be the double number.

In S party may dial a request to initiate a telephone call to a telephone number corresponding with the double number for subscriber .

In S BSC may receive the request identifying the double number for subscriber and the primary number for party and forward the request to MSC .

In S MSC may determine if the request includes a dialed number that falls in an allowed double number series and if the request includes a dialed number within a double number series may forward the request to double number server . More specifically MSC may utilize a database table or index identifying telephone numbers for double numbers to determine if the dialed number falls in an allowed double number series.

In S double number server may receive the request to complete a call utilizing a double number from MSC . Double number server may then apply rules determine if the call is to be allowed.

If the call is to be allowed double number server may modify the request via rules user preferences and mappings within database so that the telephone number associated with subscriber is the subscriber s primary number and the telephone number associated with party is party s primary number with prefix information. More specifically using the request received by double number server from MSC identifying the primary number of subscriber double number sever may map the primary number to a double number within a look up table. Then double number server may initiate an outgoing call request to MSC with the primary number of subscriber along with prefix information for party .

In S MSC may receive the outgoing call request from double number server which may include the primary number for subscriber and the primary number for party with prefix information. MSC may then forward this request to BSC

In S BSC may receive the request form MSC and then forward the call to subscriber utilizing the primary number.

In S double number subscriber may receive the call from party on the primary number with an indication that the call was originally placed to the double number corresponding to subscriber . Therefore double number subscriber may realize that the call was originally intended for his her double number. This indication may for example be the addition of the prefix to the incoming caller s number as shown for example on the subscriber s caller ID.

Embodiments for a double number subscriber transmitting or receiving SMS messages may be similar to those as described above in and for a double number subscriber transmitting and receiving telephone calls. SMS messages may have to be delivered to double number server over a short message peer to peer SMPP connection between the double number server and a SMSC . As discussed above all target double numbers may include short codes and hence may be easily routed to SMPP larger accounts. The double number server may transmit the SMS message to a second party after validation and mapping of the double number. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the double number server may transmit SMS messages to SMSC and SMSC may be configured to deliver the SMS to the receiving party.

In S double number subscriber may desire to transmit an SMS message to another subscriber or party . Subscriber may transmit an SMS message along with prefix information identifying that subscriber desires to utilize an associated double number. Accordingly subscriber may enter a prefix 66 and then the primary telephone number of party 03335552222 .

In S BSC may receive a request that double number subscriber desires to transmit an SMS request to party . This request may include the prefix information the primary telephone number of party and the primary telephone number of subscriber . BSC may forward the request to SMSC .

In S SMSC may parse the request and determine if the SMS message includes prefix information or a starting sequence indicating that the SMS message is to be completed utilizing a double number. If the SMS message does indicate that the SMS message is to be completed utilizing a double number then SMSC may forward the request to double number server .

In S double number server may receive the request to complete the SMS message utilizing a double number from SMSC . Then double number server may modify the request via rules and mappings so that the telephone number associated with subscriber becomes the double number. More specifically the request received by double number server from SMSC may indicate that the SMS message is from the primary number associated with subscriber and that the outgoing SMS message included prefix information. Due to the prefix information associated with the SMS message double number server may then locate a corresponding double number within a database to the primary number of subscriber . Double number server may then modify the outgoing SMS message request to include the double number of party instead of the primary number of party .

In S SMSC may receive an outbound SMS request including the double number of subscriber and the telephone number of associated with party and forward the SMS request to BSC .

In S BSC may receive the SMS request and forward the SMS request to party . The SMS request may include the identification of the double number for subscriber instead of the primary number.

In S party may receive the SMS message along with an identification that the SMS message is from the double number for subscriber .

In S party may transmit an SMS message with a request to transmit an SMS message to a telephone number corresponding with the double number for subscriber .

In S BSC may receive the request identifying the double number for subscriber and the primary number for party and forward the request to SMSC .

In S SMSC may determine if the request includes a number that falls in allowed double number series and if the request includes a number within a double number series forward the request to double number server . More specifically SMSC may utilize a database table or index identifying telephone numbers for double numbers.

In S double number server may receive the request to transmit an SMS message with a double number from SMSC . Then double number server may modify the request via rules and mappings so that the number associated with subscriber is the primary number and the number associated with party is the party s primary number with prefix information. More specifically using the request received by double number server from SMSC identifying the primary number of subscriber double number sever may map the primary number to a double number within a look up table. Then double number server may initiate an outgoing SMS request to SMSC with the primary number of party and subscriber along with prefix information.

In S SMSC may receive the outgoing SMS request from double number server which may include the primary number for subscriber and the primary number for party with prefix information. SMSC may then forward this request to BSC

In S BSC may receive the request from SMSC and then forward the SMS message to subscriber utilizing the primary number.

In S double number subscriber may receive the SMS message from party on the primary number with an indication that the SMS message was sent to the double number corresponding to subscriber . This indication may for example be the addition of the prefix to the incoming caller s number as shown for example on the subscriber s caller ID.

OMO may include a device configured to utilize a double number base station and SMSC . Telecommunications network may include a gateway MSC signal transfer point STP and or home location registry HLR .

Gateway MSC may be configured to a visited SMSC the device that is to receive an SMS message is currently located at. For example gateway MSC may be configured to determine the location of SMSC . STP may be a router that relays messages between signaling end points SEPs and other signaling transfer points STPs . Typical SEPs include service switching points and service control points. STP may be connected to adjacent SEPs and STPs via signaling links. Based on the address fields of the messages the STP routes the messages to the appropriate outgoing signaling link. For example STP may route a message received from gateway MSC to double number platform . HLR may be a central database that contains details of each phone subscriber that is authorized to use the telecom network . Furthermore HLR may store details of every SIM card issued by the OMO . HLR may also be used for normal operation of SMS messages and be communicably connected to gateway MSC and double number server .

Turning now to the steps to complete an OFF net SMS message in S device may transmit an SMS message to base station . In S base station may then transmit the SMS message to SMSC .

In S gateway MSC may receive the SRI and transmit a locate global title GT message corresponding to the received SRI message to SIP . If device corresponds to an on net device in S STP may then transmit the locate GT message to HLR and if device corresponds to an off net device in S STP may forward the SRI message to double number server .

In S double number server may acknowledge that the SRI message corresponds to a double user and may transmit an SRI ACK message to STP .

In response to receiving the SRI ACK message in S STP may forward the message to SMSC . Then in S SMSC may transmit a mobile terminated forward short message MT FSM to gateway MSC . Gateway MSC may then forward the MT FSM to STP in S. STP may then transmit the MT FSM message to double number server in S.

In S double number server may apply rules mapping and blocking features to the MT FSM. Double number server may then forward the SMS to SMSC which may be configured to deliver SMS to a second party.

In further example embodiments double number server may be configured to provide billing and charging information associated with a user subscribing to a double number. In one embodiment a user associated with a double number may be charged at recurring time periods such as on a monthly weekly or daily basis. Charging of calls made to a double number subscriber may be done by a telecommunications service provider as usual based on the call originating from the subscriber s mobile or landline device. As such usual charging may occur for calls targeted to double numbers.

However calls originating from a double number i.e. with a double number service prefix may be charged by flat billing where any call to the prefix based short code should be billed at a fixed rate and international calling would not be allowed. Hence the flat call rate may be applied to any call on any network in the same country and a complete tariff table of the operator may be replicated with the prefix which will automatically charge an appropriate amount as if charged for a normal call to the same destination number.

A message delivery amount may be charged if the message is sent from a handset to an MSC of a telecom using the same tariff table as discussed above for calling. The telecom provider may opt to inform its customers regarding the flat charge when the first SMS is sent. In case of cross carrier messages not being available on SMPP the double number platform may also support emulating an SMSC with a GT point code over mobile access points MAP to receive and acknowledge such messages.

Furthermore billing and charging may be performed using representational state transfer REST simple object access protocol SOAP XML remote procedure call RPC or similar protocols exposed by telecommunications networks for billing integration. Moreover a double number server may be customized to accommodate other kinds of billing mechanisms if desired or required. Therefore billing may use exposed Application Programming Interfaces APIs to charge prepaid and postpaid customers as soon as their charging date is due respectively.

Double number server may be configured to allow for integration with interlaces such as CSR interfaces provided to customer support representatives. In other embodiments some development by telecommunications providers may be required or desired to process information associated with double number subscribers and their services when handling complaints or discrepancies with charging billing and or usage of services. For example an HTTP interface may be exposed by default while customization to accommodate any other kind of required or desired interface is provided during deployment.

Apart from providing integration operations a double number server may also be configured to provide a separate web based interface for operations and maintenance O M and reports regarding system utilization double number allocation CDRs information regarding sent messages etc. The double number server may also be configured for reports for value added services VAS marketing departments which may include MSISDN inventory utilization bar graphs P2P billing minutes P2P unique users P2P SMS subscribers numbers of users who un subscribed. P2P successful calls and total active users. In addition to this information a separate reporting inference may also be provided to a CSR department for customer support.

In even further embodiments a double number service may be deployed with a comprehensive O M product to monitor all nodes hardware resources and software functionality on all systems deployed for a one stop view of complete system operations. Alerts may be dispatched to configured email address and as SMS messages to cell phones for immediate attention if required or desired. A history of alerts may also be later viewed.

The O M platform may be configured to monitor operating systems and resources specialized software for IVR SMS etc. data base server software and all other components involved for the operation of a double number service.

The double number service may be configured to be deployed on a number of clusters for each type of node. Most of the nodes may be configured to be deployed in N M redundancy where N is the number of nodes most required for the operation and M is the number of redundant nodes. Under usual circumstances MN. The nodes may be IVR SMS inter operation integration database and O M and all the redundant nodes may be deployed in an active load balancing configuration except O M which may be deployed in a passive backup configuration to avoid duplication alerts being dispatched while all nodes are operational.

Single nodes of O M and databases may be sufficient for the operation of a double number service and may be deployed in a 1 1 cluster configuration where O M is a passive backup and the database is an active load balancing node.

Redundant nodes for a double number service may be deployed in different geographical locations to improve uptime in an event the primary location is unresponsive. However this may require a higher speed data connection between the two locations and all other connectivity options may be required or desired to be available at both locations such as SS7. SMPP etc.

In further embodiments the double number server may have web interfaces for different components of the double number service. For example each of the following may have its own user guide and interface to be provided during system deployment O M number provisions system utilization CDRs information regarding received and sent message not the text of the messages customer care policy administration and access to database with a look up table or mapping. The double number service may also have components interacting with each other via internally defined APIs.

The double number service may have different kind or types of nodes in clusters and each node may be expanded without disrupting any other component or node within the system. Hence for a same number of subscribers making too many calls but not sending an amount of SMS message above a threshold IVR may be expanded.

The double number service may be configured to include an automatic backup process which may include restoring the operating system and node specific applications and data portions.

In the description herein numerous specific details are provided such as examples of components and or methods to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that an embodiment may be able to be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other apparatus systems assemblies methods components materials parts and or the like. For example the same functionality may be achieved with various hardware setups. Voice T1 E1s may be used connected to telephony boards that do the processing requiring two voice channels for every call made using the system. Alternatively data T1 E1s may be used to send data packets identifying who is making a call and what number they are calling which is used to check if either is a subscriber to a double number service sends data back regarding the correct number to dial or to identify as the caller s number and then the call goes out on the switch. In another embodiment T1 E1s may not be used at all. A person of skill in the art would recognize these various hardware implementations resulting in equivalent functionality.

In other instances well known structures components systems materials or operations are not specifically shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of embodiments. While the embodiments may be illustrated by using a particular embodiment this is not and does not limit the invention to any particular embodiment and a person of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that additional embodiments are readily understandable and are a part of the example embodiments.

It will also be appreciated that one or more of the elements depicted in the drawings figures can also be implemented in a more separated or integrated manner or even removed or rendered as inoperable in certain cases as is useful in accordance with a particular application. The invention encompasses every possible combination of the various features of each embodiment disclosed. Additionally any signal arrows in the drawings figures should be considered only as exemplary and not limiting unless otherwise specifically noted.

Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described above with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any component s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential feature or component.

