---

title: Apparatus for growth of dilute-nitride materials using an isotope for enhancing the sensitivity of resonant nuclear reaction analysis
abstract: In certain desirable embodiments, the present invention relates to the use of N isotopes into GaAsN, InAsN or GaSbN films for ion beam analysis. A semiconductor-nitride assembly for growing and analyzing crystal growth in a group III-V semiconductor sample that includes: a substrate; a buffer layer deposited on the substrate, a nitrogen gas injector to incorporate enriched nitrogen gas and the nitrogen gas injector includes a concentration of enriched nitrogen gas, a thin film consisting of at least one group III element containing compound where at least one group III element is covalently bonded with the nitrogen in the presence of the same or different group V element of the buffer layer, and a proton beam to analyze the incorporation of the nitrogen gas in the thin film layer is described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08505481&OS=08505481&RS=08505481
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08505481
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120601
---
This application is a divisional application of and claims priority of United States Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 12 628 675 entitled A METHOD FOR GROWTH OF DILUTE NITRIDE MATERIALS USING AN ISOTOPE FOR ENHANCING THE SENSITIVITY OF RESONANT NUCLEAR REACTION ANALYSIS by Stefan P. Svensson and John D. Demaree filed Dec. 1 2009 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 222 052 on Jul. 17 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The embodiments described herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

The embodiments described herein generally relate to methods tests and devices for analyzing the concentration and crystalline lattice location of amounts of nitrogen in semiconductor materials.

Generally the military s and more specifically the Army s overwhelming need for enhanced night vision monitoring detection tools is well known within the military community as well as those skilled in the art. Consequently in order to efficiently meet this need infrared IR detector materials having high detectivity and low manufacturing costs associated therewith are desirable. Currently Mercury Cadmium Telluride MCT or HgCdTe also referred to cadmium mercury telluride is the material technology of choice utilized for its adaptability and high performance. In particular MCT is an alloy made of Cadmium Telluride CdTe and Mercury Telluride HgTe wherein the amount of Cd in the alloy composition can be chosen so as to tweak or tune the optical absorption of the material to the desired wavelength. Thus MCT is adaptable to achieve an end user specified desired optical absorption. Further MCT is known as being the only material having the ability to detect IR radiation in both of the accessible atmospheric windows i.e. the mid wave infrared window MWIR which ranges from 3 to 5 m and the long wave window LWIR which ranges from 10 12 m. However MCT is a Group II VI material that has limited use with regard to other applications and furthermore can only be processed in dedicated fabrication facilities. As such the use of MCT can be very costly.

In contrast Group III V materials have many commercial and military applications. Thus an IR material technology that utilizes and builds upon the existing industrial III V infrastructure could realize significant cost savings.

In particular it has been determined that by combining nitrogen with the group V element s in a III V semiconductor with group III elements like Ga In and Al materials with relatively large bandgaps can be formed. In recent years it has been realized that addition of small amounts 

Materials synthesis techniques for dilute nitrides are in their infancy and much work remains to be done to optimize the materials quality. One significant issue is control of the incorporation of nitrogen such that all of the nitrogen enters the crystal at substitutional group V sites. There is some evidence that a significant amount of the incorporated nitrogen resides in interstitial sites forming unwanted electrically and optically active centers. Some of this evidence comes from ion beam analysis experiments using resonant nuclear reaction analysis RNRA . For example the reaction R1 He N O proton has been used. Unfortunately the probability of ion atom interaction i.e. the reaction cross section for this reaction is extremely small making measurements time consuming. Additionally this method requires the use of a He ion beam which can contaminate beamline components and lead to unwanted background reactions in future experiments.

To overcome these shortcomings the state of the art molecular beam epitaxy MBE systems and methods provide for among other things the combination of a novel way of synthesizing dilute nitrides together with an optimum RNRA reaction method that will maximize the sensitivity of the analysis method. It has been realized that the sensitivity improvement will be more than two orders of magnitude over previously used methods.

In the certain desirable embodiments described herein dilute nitride films are grown using MBE. The films may be grown on any available substrate and can target any desired wavelength. In the common MBE process nitrogen is introduced to the growth reactor as a gas and can be excited in a plasma source to produce chemically reactive nitrogen that can be incorporated in the film. Previously all such work has used common nitrogen gas which is a mixture of N and the isotope N. The natural abundance of N is 0.366 with the remaining 99.96 being N. Thus a reaction targeting N as an indicator of the total amount of nitrogen would have limited sensitivity. N has been used with success for analysis of nitrogen incorporation at the percent level in gun barrel steel. Conversely in the embodiments disclosed herein the films are grown using a supply of nitrogen gas enriched with the N isotope. N is available in concentrations approaching 100 thus giving rise to a sensitivity enhancement of a factor of 272 99.96 0.366 compared to the case when nitrogen with the natural abundance is used. An additional advantage with the method is that semiconductors grown almost entirely with N and that are exposed to protons of a specific energy that cause the selected nuclear reaction to occur such material can be p doped by the carbon atoms created by the process.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment herein provides a semiconductor nitride assembly for growing and analyzing crystal growth in a group III V semiconductor sample comprising a substrate a buffer layer deposited on the substrate a nitrogen gas injector to incorporate enriched nitrogen gas wherein the nitrogen gas injector may include a concentration of enriched nitrogen gas having a concentration greater than naturally occurs more desirably greater than about 50 weight percent still more desirably greater than about 60 70 80 90 95 98 99 99.5 and up to about 100 percent by weight or volume a thin film consisting of the nitrogen and group III V compounds and an energetic proton beam to analyze the incorporation of the nitrogen gas in the thin film layer.

Such an embodiment may further include a cap layer comprising any one of GaAs InAs and GaSb deposited on said thin film layer.

Moreover in such an embodiment thin film may comprise any one of GaAsN InAsN GaSbN GaAsN InAsN and GaSbN.

Additionally the semiconductor substrate may comprise alloys mainly consisting of Al Ga In P As and Sb. Further the nitrogen gas may comprise any one of a nitrogen enriched isotope N and natural nitrogen gas N.

The nitrogen injector also include a plasma unit comprising an RF power source and a plasma supply source wherein the plasma source may generate a plasma and the RF power source may supply RF power to irradiate the plasma to thereby generate a plasma that produces single nitrogen atoms to incorporate in the thin film layer.

Further the proton beam may analyze the incorporation of nitrogen using the reaction Proton N O excited C wherein the reaction takes place when the Proton reaches a predetermined resonant energy to preferentially form the O nucleus.

Still further the reaction may convert a predetermined concentration of nitrogen atoms to acceptors namely carbon atoms.

Moreover an embodiment herein provides a method for analyzing crystal growth in a group III V semiconductor comprising growing a group III V substrate depositing a group III V buffer layer on said substrate injecting a nitrogen gas via a nitrogen gas injector having a concentration of enriched nitrogen gas having a concentration of about 100 and further includes a plasma unit to generate a plasma forming a thin film layer consisting of said nitrogen and group III V compounds on said buffer layer and analyzing the incorporation of said nitrogen gas in said thin film layer.

Further the injecting a nitrogen gas may further include irradiating the plasma with an RF power source to produce a plasma having single nitrogen atoms.

Still further the method may include forming a cap layer on the thin film layer comprising any one of GaAs and GaSb compounds. Additionally the analyzing the incorporation of nitrogen may further include recording an x ray diffraction rocking curve and confirming the incorporation of nitrogen via the reaction Proton N O excited C 

Moreover the confirming the incorporation of said nitrogen may further comprises converting a predetermined concentration of nitrogen atoms to acceptors namely carbon atoms.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The embodiments described herein provide methods tests and devices that include semiconductor nitride materials having amounts of nitrogen deliberately incorporated therein. More particularly the embodiments described herein provide a process and device for analyzing the concentration and crystalline lattice location of small amounts of nitrogen specifically N deliberately incorporated in compound semiconductor materials.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments.

Furthermore gas line contains a regulator that generally functions to reduce any residual gas pressure build up in gas delivery line . A filter is disposed on gas delivery line for reducing unwanted particulates from the gas stream generated through gas line . Additionally a mass flow controller MFC is disposed on gas line for controlling the flow of nitrogen gas to the injector . Moreover pressure gauge indicates the nitrogen pressure at the MFC inlet. It is to be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that the MFC may either be analog or digital depending upon the specifications of the end user. A plurality of valves and are located on the water lines and at various positions throughout the gas supply system to allow gas line to remain pressurized in the event that components malfunction and or need replacement. Some of these valves also control cooling water flow. Further water flow indicator identifies the proper water cooling capacity and flow controller ensures that the water lines remain at the proper cooling capacity. Water filter is responsible for removing sediments from the water line. Bypass line connects to gas line and is generally utilized to evacuate the gas line . This is connected to the evacuation line for evacuation of the entire system and is serviced by a turbo molecular pump . Turbo molecular pump includes a gate valve responsible for isolating the pump from the entire vacuum system not shown of the MBE system.

In the above described configuration an example with a GaAs sample substrate for example a wafer not shown is used as a sample being an object semiconductor for forming GaAsN will be described in detail below. The example cited below is merely for purposes of illustration and as such the embodiments herein are not limited to the specific example below. Further it is to be appreciated that the substrate may be made of various suitable compounds including but not limited to GaAs GaP InAs and InP.

Turning to the growth process generally begins with placing a sample wafer or another semiconductor substrate in a growth chamber reactor not shown and further desorbing oxide from the GaAs sample surface. In particular the oxide desorption is done by thermally heating the sample in an Arsenide As flux to a specific temperature well known in the art e.g. from about 580 C. to about 650 C. at which a regular reflection high energy electron diffraction RHEED pattern may be observed. In particular a RHEED gun emits electrons which strike the surface of the substrate at a specified angle. Electrons reflect from the surface and strike a phosphor screen forming a pattern i.e. the RHEED pattern . The RHEED pattern provides qualitative feedback with regard to the growth and surface of the substrate. The temperature of the growth reactor is then lowered to a value that is suitable for growth of GaAs e.g. temperatures from about 400 C. to about 500 C. .

Typically vapors of at least one Group III element compound are flowed into the growth chamber not show for initiating growth of the III V buffer layer in the presence of the same or different Group V element gas or vapor. However such buffer layers are not essential. Thus referencing the above example a buffer layer of GaAs is generally deposited on the sample wafer in order to produce a material that is cleaner and having a smoother surface than that of the raw substrate wafer. It is well known that buffer layers provide a clean surface although not required which is an important prerequisite for epitaxial growth since contaminants from the atmosphere or other sources can easily contaminate a clean wafer thereby causing crystal defects. The thickness of the buffer layer surface is not limited to a specific value and may be driven by end user specifications.

The buffer layer growth is followed by the growth of a dilute nitride layer by flowing vapors in the form of molecular beams via individual element shutters each including at least one Group III compound and vapors of a Group III element containing compound whereby at least one Group III element is covalently bonded with Nitrogen N in the presence of the same or different group V element gas or vapor as in the previous step into the growth chamber not shown . The temperature of the substrate described herein is further lowered to a value or range that is suitable and well known for growth of GaAsN e.g. about 450 C. . At the above mentioned temperature range the surface of the substrate need not be supplied with excess Arsenic As and thus the sample can be turned away from the direction in which the element shutters not shown and more specifically molecular beams not shown of MBE system are generally incident. The above step helps to protect the sample from unwanted exposure to irradiated excited nitrogen once the plasma unit is activated.

Gas line is pressurized with either N or N from either pressurized bottle or . However prior to the gas pressurization all gas valves and and the MFC are closed. Regulator is set to an appropriate value e.g. 10 psi that will enable easy flow of gas from the pressurized bottle s and or utilized through gas line . The valve is then opened thereby connecting the injector e.g. a plasma unit with the gas line . If gas line has been properly evacuated via bypass line a minimal increase in the overall pressure of the growth chamber is realized. Subsequently all remaining valves and are then opened in sequence progressing from the injector side towards the regulator .

A plasma is generated by Radio Frequency RF power supplied from an RF power source not shown and a tuning network . Further the MFC is set to a large value e.g. 0.6 sccm standard cubic centimeter per minute that consequently increases the background pressure in the growth chamber to approximately 1E 5 Torr over a 240 second duration. During this pressure increase light emission from the plasma is monitored. When the plasma is observed as emitting visible light the MFC setting is then reduced to a value setting that is well known to produce a stable growth reactor pressure e.g. 3 10 . Stable is defined herein as not varying over time by more than a few percent. It should be appreciated that if the plasma unit is not designed with an automated matching network manual tuning must be done during the above mentioned dynamic sequence. The MBE system pressure and the plasma source and are stabilized over a pre determined time interval. For example a 40 min time period has been utilized however the time may vary and is not limited to the time interval disclosed herein. Once stability of the MBE system has been achieved the sample is turned towards the direction of molecular beams not shown and the respective element shutters not shown for the elements Ga As and N to be included. Chiller and water drain line are responsible for providing cooling water to the plasma source and tuning network during growth. The element shutters not shown are immediately opened and the shutters generally remain opened until a film of sufficient or desired thickness has been deposited. At this point the N shutter is closed the RF power is turned off and the gas valve is closed.

A thin cap layer of GaAs may then be deposited on top of the nitrogen containing film. Once completed the remaining element shutters are closed and the sample temperature is decreased to room temperature. The sample is then formed and can be extracted from the growth reactor

During the above mentioned process the substrate temperature is preferably monitored and controlled using a non contact optical technique. Without limitation band edge monitoring GaAs and pyrometry GaSb may be utilized here.

Next the sample can be analyzed using resonant nuclear reaction analysis to confirm the incorporation of N in the grown film. is an illustration of the presence of N in GaAsN measured by resonant nuclear reaction analysis RNRA . In the preferred embodiment the material grown with N will be analyzed using the reaction R2 Proton N O excited C Where O is oxygen C represents carbon represents an emitted alpha particle and represents and emitted gamma ray photon. R2 is a resonant reaction meaning that it will take place at a much higher rate when the energy of the incoming proton has a specific resonant energy. As the proton travels though the substrate material it will lose energy at a specific rate that is determined by the composition and density of the host material. By knowing this rate and by varying the energy of the protons the depth at which the resonant reaction takes place can be varied effectively sampling the presence of the N target nuclei at various depths below the surface.

Reaction R2 of films grown with N can be used for simple depth profiling or given a sufficiently high reaction rate in a channeling mode. In ion beam channeling the primary crystal axes of the sample are tilted in and out of alignment with the incident ion beam and the change in nuclear reaction yield can be used to elucidate the lattice position of the target nuclei i.e. nitrogen within the semiconductor crystal.

An additional effect of reaction R2 in N containing films is that some nitrogen is converted to carbon. When carbon is located on a Group V site it will act as an acceptor. Consequently inactive nitrogen is transformed into an active dopant center via a process called transmutation doping . Conversely if the film being analyzed exhibits an unwanted n type dopant concentration which is frequently the case with dilute nitride layers reaction R2 can be used to convert some nitrogen to acceptors thus reducing the net donor concentration. In the wide bandgap nitrides p doping is usually very difficult to accomplish with conventional means such as introduction of gaseous forms of dopant elements during the crystal synthesis or post synthesis ion implantation. Thus by growing for example GaN with N reaction R2 can be used to create p dopants at selective depths.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the embodiments described herein may be embodied as a method a testing process an apparatus or a device by which dilute nitride films can be grown with regular N or with the isotope N. Furthermore the above cited examples exemplify solid source MBE growth of III V compound semiconductors. However it is to be appreciated that other compound semiconductors that include nitrogen can be grown in a similar manner and alternate elements may be delivered via other means other than solid source evaporation including but not limited to tri methyl gas sources.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

