---

title: Generating time slot for managing time across multiple time zones
abstract: A time slot of regular time length and capacity is defined in time local to a time zone. The slot is defined by a local time start timestamp and a local time end timestamp. In one aspect, upon determining that the local time end timestamp of the slot overlaps with the transition period, the time slot is prolonged beyond the transition period. The prolonged time slot is correspondingly defined by an international standard time start timestamp and an international standard time end timestamp. The prolonged time slot is generated based on the international standard time start timestamp and the international standard time end timestamp.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09361594&OS=09361594&RS=09361594
owner: SAP SE
number: 09361594
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20120924
---
In some industries such as transportation air traffic control or supply chain management business processes and transactions may depend on accurate date and time. Computer systems often support global commercial transactions and processes that involve entities operating across multiple time zones around the globe. Typically communication between the systems conforms to a common standard for date and time such as Universal Time UT Coordinated Universal Time UTC Greenwich Mean Time GMT or other international standards. For example timestamps based on the respective date and time standard may be assigned to the electronic messages exchanged between the systems. Establishing communication between the systems based on a common standard helps to synchronize clocks of the systems.

Generally systems and applications are configured to operate in particular time zones. Common business need is displaying information to users with relevant date and time settings i.e. in the local time zone of the users. For example it is more convenient for users to schedule appointments meetings or other planning activities in their respective local time. A common scenario may be communication between systems across multiple time zones where the systems operate with local time zone settings. Although communication between systems may be based on common date and time standard the systems may be set to operate in their respective local times. The difference between the standardized time and the local times may generate confusion and inaccurate data.

Embodiments of techniques for planning unambiguously across multiple time zones are described herein. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the embodiments can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment this embodiment and similar phrases means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one of the one or more embodiments. Thus the appearances of these phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

Nowadays time zones across the globe are defined as positive or negative offsets from an international standard time such as UTC UT GMT or other global standard times. During most of the time of the year the offset from the international standard time is fixed. For example time zones are usually defined to differ from UTC by integer numbers of hours although several jurisdictions have established time zones that differ by an integer number of half hours or quarter hours from UT or UTC. Typically the international standard time does not change during seasons. In contrast local time or civil time may change if a time zone jurisdiction observes daylight saving time DST also called summer time. For example Central European Time CET during half of the year is defined as a positive offset of one hour from UTC. During the other half of the year Central European Summer Time CEST is defined as a positive offset of two hours from UTC. DST is a practice of advancing clocks so that evenings have more daylight and mornings have less. Typically clocks are adjusted forward one hour near the start of spring and are adjusted backward in autumn Whether a DST practice is observed depends on the different jurisdictions some choose to adopt DST while others do not use DST.

In a typical case when DST starts in a time zone a one hour shift forward in time occurs. Hence one hour is skipped in the time local to the time zone. The day clock round when DST starts is with twenty three hours in local time instead of twenty four hours. Whereas when DST ends a one hour shift backward in time occurs repeating one hour twice. Thus the day clock round in local time is twenty five hours when DST ends. The clock shifts due to DST may disrupt many activities that depend on accurate date and time. For example activities that occur twenty four hours a day seven days a week may be affected and put out of regular order.

A transition period is a period of time that results from changes in the regular time pattern of the day. The transition period may be an effect of changes in the standard movement of the clock round. The transition period is an interval of time defined by a starting and finishing time. The transition period is a range of time marked or defined by two instants i.e. starting and finishing. In one embodiment the transition period is an interval of time that is a consequence of the DST shifts. For example a transition period may be the one hour that is skipped as a result of the shift to DST. Although the skipped one hour is not present in local time in this case the definition of the transition period corresponds to the skipped one hour interval. Another example may be the one hour that is repeated twice as a result of reversing the DST shift e.g. as a result of shifting back to non DST. In one embodiment a transition period may be defined and scheduled for some time zones across the globe while for others it may not occur. The time length of a transition period may be different for the different time zones for example it may also be with length of half an hour quarter hour or other length. In one embodiment a transition period may be a consequence of any changes of the time local to a time zone that disrupt the regular time pattern of the day. Table 1 below illustrates exemplary DST shifts 1 and 2 in CET time zone.

In CET time zone on Sunday Mar. 25 2012 as a result of the DST shift 1 the period of time from 02 00 00 AM to 02 59 59 AM is missing because the 02 00 00 AM naturally arriving after 01 59 59 is instead changed directly to 03 00 00 Result of the shift to DST is a transition period or interval marked by the starting instant 02 00 00 AM and the ending instant 02 59 59 AM in CET. Due to the transition to DST there is a period of time in UTC that it is omitted in local time. On Sunday 28 Oct. 2012 in CET time zone as a result of reversing to non DST time the period of time from 02 00 00 AM to 02 59 59 AM is repeated twice because the time is returned back to 02 00 00 AM when 03 00 00 AM is arriving. Result of DST backward shift 2 is a transition period marked by the starting instant 02 00 00 AM and the ending instant 02 59 59 AM in CET. Due to the end of the DST there is a period of time in UTC that is repeated in local time. Thus the transition periods result in ambiguities and discrepancies between the local time and the UTC time.

Often date and time information is converted from one time standard to another. For example systems and applications are often configured to operate in particular time zones. However such systems may also communicate with other systems operating globally. Since communication between the systems is typically based on common date and time standard often local date and time is converted to the common international standard time for the systems to communicate accurately across multiple time zones. Local date and time can be converted to a corresponding international standard time based on the time zone and the defined offset from the international standard time in this time zone. However during the DST shifts the transition periods in local time are not correspondingly defined in the international standard time.

The lack of correspondence between the transition periods in local time and the international standard time may result in discrepancies in the information that is communicated between systems. For example in case activities during the transition periods are scheduled in the systems that operate in one time zone inaccurate or ambiguous information may be communicated to a system operating in a different time zone. In one embodiment a method to accurately convert periods of time defined in local time to an international standard time is implemented. Periods defined in local time that can be unambiguously converted to an international standard time could also be safely communicated between systems operating across multiple time zones.

Date and time information for planning or time management may often be formatted or arranged in time grids. A time grid may be a pattern of regularly spaced time slots. A time grid with regular pattern of the time is based on time slots with regular time length. A time slot is a period range or interval of time with a starting and finishing time. A time slot is a definite length of time marked or defined by two instants. For example the time slot may be defined by a start timestamp and an end timestamp of the slot. In one embodiment a time slot may be defined by a starting time and time length of the slot. In time grid time slots are ordered as a sequence where the end time of each slot is the start time of the next slot in the sequence.

In one embodiment the time slot may be a period of time allocated and assigned on a schedule or agenda. A time slot may be a unit that can be generated in a schedule. The time slot may be the standard unit that can be booked for a resource. An appointment can be allocated to one or more time slots. Different statuses that a time slot can have include but are not limited to booked if an appointment is allocated to the time slot blocked if a time slot is reserved for special purposes for example maintenance and free if a time slot is available for planning. Any type of event activity business task or process etc. may be associated with or scheduled at a time slot. Time slots may indicate various business dates such as appointments schedules meetings plans etc.

In one embodiment a capacity may be associated with a time slot. A capacity of a time slot may indicate an amount of work or other activity that can be associated to the slot that is expected to be performed or produced during the time period of the slot. The capacity of a time slot may indicate an average amount of work that is typically performed for the time and duration of the slot. Alternatively the capacity of the slot may represent maximum amount of work. Vertical axis illustrates a scale of the capacity which can be assigned to or associated with time slots of time grid . For example the scale illustrated with vertical axis is from zero to ten. In maximum capacity of 10 is assigned or associated to time slot and capacity of 9 is assigned to time slot .

In a planning period time slots may be ordered in a sequence. In one embodiment a planning period is a period of time that includes a sequence of time slots where the end of one slot is the start of the next slot. For example in a planning period a start timestamp of a slot is equal to an end timestamp of the previous slot. Thus the sequence of slots may be defined without gaps in time. In one embodiment a planning period is a period with generated time slots of regular time length and with capacity assigned to the slots. Example of a planning period is a week with generated time slots and associated capacity such as Week 27 Week 28 or Week from Jul. 8 2012 to Jul. 14 2012. The planning period is with regular pattern of time defined based on ordered standard time slots with regular length and assigned capacity. In one embodiment time slots of a planning period are available for scheduling and planning activities. Examples of time lengths of a planning period include but are not limited to a working week of five or whole week of seven days a month a day a single slot and so on.

When a planning period such as a time slot is communicated across systems the starting and finishing time and date of the planning period are transmitted or exchanged between the systems. In one embodiment if the time slot overlaps with a transition period the time slot is prolonged beyond the transition period. The starting and the finishing time of the slot are changed to points in time that are correspondingly defined in an international standard time and can be accurately converted to the international standard time.

At a check is performed if the requested time slot overlaps with a transition period. In one embodiment the requested time slot overlaps with a transition period if the end timestamp of the slot is a point in time that belongs to the time interval of the transition period. In another embodiment the requested time slot overlaps with a transition period if the start timestamp of the slot is a point in time that belongs to the time interval of the transition period. If the requested time slot overlaps with a transition period at the requested length of the slot is prolonged beyond the transition period. In one embodiment the borders of the slot are moved in time to occur beyond the transition period. For example the end timestamp of the requested slot can be extended to surpass or exceed the transition period. In one embodiment the requested time length of the slot may be prolonged by adding the regular time length to the requested length of the slot. In another embodiment the end timestamp of the slot may simply be moved until a second or other period after the end of the transition period. Similarly the start timestamp of the slot may be moved a second or other period before the start of the transition period. In one embodiment the requested length of the slot may also be shortened. If the regular time length of the slot is longer than the time length of the transition period then by shortening the slot the start or the end timestamps of the slot may be moved to points in time that are outside the borders of the transition period.

By prolonging a regular slot beyond a transition period the starting and the finishing time of the slot are changed to points in time that are correspondingly defined in an international standard time. Thus the starting and finishing time of the slot are moved to points in time that can be accurately converted to the international standard time or other time standards. Since the slot can be accurately converted to a standard time the slot can also be accurately defined and represented in multiple time zones based on the standard time. Thus date and time information can be accurately communicated among integrated systems across multiple time zones based on the international standard time.

Since the regular capacity may depend on the time length of the requested slot the requested regular capacity may also be adjusted in response to prolonging the slot. At the requested regular capacity of the slot is adjusted or adapted to correspond to the prolonged length of the slot. In one embodiment the regular capacity of the slot may be increased or otherwise adjusted by multiplying the regular capacity by a prolongation factor. The prolongation factor may be a ratio between the prolonged time length of the slot as represented in the international standard time and the requested regular time length. The prolongation factor depends on the regular length of the requested slot and on the length of the prolonged slot as defined in the international standard time. In one embodiment if the slot is shortened instead of prolonged the capacity may be decreased instead of increased. Similarly a shortening factor may be calculated that is based on the regular length of the requested slot and the length of the shortened slot as defined in the international standard time.

At the adjusted capacity is associated to the generated slot with prolonged length. If the requested time slot does not overlap with a transition period at the requested regular capacity is associated to the generated slot with regular length.

At a check is performed if the end timestamp of the requested slot overlaps with a transition period that is a result of the shift that starts DST. The end timestamp of the requested slot overlaps with the transition period if the end timestamp of the slot represented in local time is a point in time that belongs to transition period. If the end timestamp of the requested time slot overlaps with the transition period that is a result of the shift that starts DST at in local time one hour is subtracted from the end timestamp of the slot. The end timestamp is shifted backward in time with one hour to change the end timestamp to time that can be accurately and unambiguously converted from local time to the UTC time. Thus the end timestamp is moved back in time before the start of the transition period and before the start of DST. The end timestamp is shifted backward in local time beyond the transition period. In one embodiment the end time timestamp is moved with one hour. In other embodiments the end timestamp may be moved backward in time with other time lengths such as lengths equal to the length of the transition period. In one embodiment the end timestamp is moved backward with time length equal or more than the transition period. In one embodiment one hour is subtracted regardless of the particular time zone and regardless of the standard length of the slot. In case a jurisdiction observes a DST that shifts the clock round with more than one hour other length equal or more than the transition period may be subtracted.

Because the changed end timestamp is a point in time in local time that is correspondingly defined in UTC the changed end timestamp can be reliably and unambiguously converted from local time to UTC time. At the changed end timestamp is converted from local time to UTC time. The conversion is based on the corresponding local time zone and the defined offset from UTC in this time zone without DST.

At one hour is added to the converted in UTC end timestamp. The hour or other period that is subtracted at is added back to the UTC end timestamp of the slot. In one embodiment other time length subtracted at may be added back to the converted in UTC end timestamp. At the end timestamp with the added one hour is converted back from UTC to time local to the particular requested time zone. By converting the end timestamp back to local time the requested length of the slot is prolonged beyond the transition period that starts DST. In one embodiment in response to prolonging the slot an adjusted corresponding capacity is associated with the prolonged slot. In one embodiment the requested regular capacity of the slot is increased to correspond to the prolonged length of the slot represented in UTC time. In one embodiment the adjusted capacity of the slot is based on a ratio between the requested regular time length and the duration of the prolonged slot represented in UTC.

To illustrate with reference to Table 1. A request to generate a slot in CET time is received. The slot is requested to be generated from 01 00 00 AM to 02 00 00 AM on Sunday 25 Mar. 2012 in local CET time. According to process the start timestamp 01 00 00 AM is converted from local time to UTC thus in UTC time the start timestamp 01 00 00 AM is converted to 00 00 00 AM in UTC time. The conversion is based on the offset from UTC without DST i.e. the offset is positive integer of one hour from UTC. The end timestamp 02 00 00 AM of the requested slot is a point in time that belongs to the transition period that is a result of the shift that starts DST. According to process one hour is subtracted from the end timestamp 02 00 00 AM moving the end timestamp back in local time to 01 00 00 AM . Since the end timestamp is changed to 01 00 00 AM which is a point in time that is correspondingly defined in UTC the changed end timestamp 01 00 00 AM can be converted from local time to UTC. Thus the end timestamp is converted from 01 00 00 AM in local time to 00 00 00 AM in UTC time. The conversion is based on the offset of CET from UTC without DST e.g. UTC 1 h. Then one hour is added back to the end timestamp 00 00 00 AM in UTC time changing the end timestamp from 00 00 00 AM to 01 00 00 AM in UTC. Then the end timestamp 01 00 00 AM in UTC is converted from UTC to local time converting the end timestamp to 03 00 00 AM in local time. Thus the requested time slot from 01 00 00 AM to 02 00 00 AM in local time is prolonged to a period from 01 00 00 AM to 03 00 00 AM in local time. Also the slot is correspondingly represented in UTC as a period from 00 00 00 AM to 01 00 00 AM . The prolonged slot from 01 00 00 AM to 03 00 00 AM in local time has duration of one hour in UTC time i.e. 00 00 00 AM 01 00 00 AM . In such case the prolongation factor is equal to one since the length of the requested slot has duration of one hour and also the time length of the prolonged slot as represented in UTC has duration of one hour. Thus the requested regular capacity of the slot does not change since to be adjusted it is multiplied by a factor that equals one.

If the end timestamp of the requested time slot does not overlap with a transition period that is a result of a shift that starts DST process continues. illustrates process to prolong a time slot that overlaps with a transition period that is a result of a shift that ends DST according to one embodiment. At a check is performed if the end timestamp of the requested time slot overlaps with a transition period that is a result of a shift that ends DST.

If the end timestamp of the requested slot overlaps with a transition period that is a result of the shift that ends DST at the slot is prolonged by adding the regular time length to the end timestamp of the slot represented in local time. In one embodiment the regular time length is added to the end timestamp of the slot until the end timestamp is moved forward in time beyond the transition period. For example if the regular time length is less than one hour the slot may be prolonged more than once until the slot is extended beyond a one hour transition period.

After moving forward in time the end timestamp until the requested time slot does not overlap with a transition period that is a result of the shift that ends DST at convert the end timestamp of the slot from local time to UTC time. In one embodiment the prolonged end timestamp of the slot is converted from local time to UTC time. The conversion is based on the corresponding local time zone and the defined offset from UTC in this time zone without DST.

To illustrate with reference to Table 1. A request to generate a slot in CET time is received. The slot is requested to be generated from 01 00 00 AM to 02 00 00 AM on Sunday 28 Oct. 2012 in local CET time. According to process the start timestamp 01 00 00 AM is converted from local time to UTC thus in UTC time the start timestamp 01 00 00 AM is converted to 11 00 00 PM in UTC time. The conversion is based on the offset from UTC with DST i.e. the offset is positive integer of two hours from UTC. Then it is determined that the end timestamp 02 00 00 AM of the requested slot is a point in time that belongs to the transition period that is a result of the shift to non DST. Thus the requested slot overlaps with the transition period. The requested slot is prolonged by adding one hour to the end timestamp 02 00 00 AM in local time. The end timestamp is extended from 02 00 00 AM to 03 00 00 AM . Then the end timestamp 03 00 00 AM is converted from local time to UTC time. Thus the end timestamp 03 00 00 AM in local time is converted to 02 00 00 AM in UTC time. Thus the requested time slot from 01 00 00 AM to 02 00 00 AM in local time is prolonged to a period from 01 00 00 AM to 03 00 00 AM in local time. Also the slot is correspondingly represented in UTC as a period from 11 00 00 PM to 02 00 00 AM . The prolonged slot from 01 00 00 AM to 03 00 00 AM in local time has duration of three hours in UTC time i.e. 11 00 00 PM 02 00 00 AM . In such case the prolongation factor is equal to three since the length of the requested slot has duration of one hour and the time length of the prolonged slot as represented in UTC has duration of three hours. Thus the requested regular capacity of the slot is increased three times since to be adjusted it is multiplied by a factor that equals three.

At based on the start and end timestamp of the requested slot that are represented in UTC the slot is generated. In one embodiment the prolonged time slot that is converted in UTC time is generated. The timestamps of the slot may be converted to other common global standards for date and time information in addition to UTC. Slot prolongation process prolongs a time slot that overlaps with a transition period and converts the time slot to an international standard time such as UTC. In one embodiment slot prolongation process prolongs the time slot by moving the end timestamp forward in time. In another embodiment the start timestamp of the slot may be moved backward in time beyond the transition period. In such embodiment also it may be checked if the start timestamp belongs to the transition period instead of the end timestamp.

At time slots of the template planning period are generated. In one embodiment a sequence of time slots with regular length is generated for the template planning period. In one embodiment if a time slot overlaps with a transition period the time slot is prolonged and generated according to process illustrated in . If a slot overlaps with a transition period that is a result of the shift that starts or ends DST the slot is prolonged beyond the transition period.

At the generated time slots of the template planning period are displayed. In one embodiment the template planning period may be displayed in a time grid on a graphical user interface GUI . At capacity is assigned to the generated slot of the template planning period. Capacity may be manually assigned to the generated time slots of the template planning period for example a user of the slot generation system may define the capacity. Time slots of the template planning period may be generated with zero capacity according to one embodiment.

At time slots of the planning period are generated. A sequence of time slots with regular length is generated for the planning period where the end of one slot is the start of the next slot. In one embodiment times slots of the planning period are generated in accordance with process in and process in . In one embodiment if a time slot overlaps with a transition period the standard length of the slot is prolonged to exceed the transition period. Generated time slots of the planning period may be represented in and converted to both local time and common global standard time.

Once time slots of the planning period are generated time slots that overlap with non working time may be determined. At generated time slots of the planning period that overlap with non working time are marked. For example based on information for working time in the local time zone time slots that overlap with a period of time during non working hours are marked as such.

At a start timestamp of the first slot of the template planning period is determined. Based on the start date and time of the template period the start timestamp of the first slot of the planning period is determined. At capacity of the first slot of the template period is copied to a corresponding slot in the planning period. In one embodiment capacity of the first slot of the template period may not be copied to the corresponding slot in the planning period if the corresponding slot is marked as overlapping with non working times. Slots in the planning period that overlap with non working times keep a zero capacity.

In one embodiment the start timestamp of the first slot of the planning period may be defined as the start timestamp of the first slot of the template period. For example the start timestamp of the first slot of the planning period may be at the same date and time in a time local to the particular time zone as the start timestamp of the template period. Thus a particular calendar week may be defined as both a template period and as a planning period. That way the standard capacity pattern particular to a specific calendar week e.g. particular to the dates and time of the calendar week may be copied to following weeks. In case transition periods occur during the planning period capacity of a prolonged slot of the planning period may be accordingly adjusted by a prolongation factor and not merely copied.

At a check is performed if there is a next slot in the template period that is not copied yet. If there is a next slot in the template period that is not copied yet to the planning period at next slot that is not copied is selected. In one embodiment next time slot that is not copied in the template period is determined based on a start timestamp in UTC time of the next slot which start timestamp is identical to the end timestamp of the last copied template slot.

At capacity of the next slot in the template period is copied to a corresponding time slot in the planning period. In one embodiment the capacity is copied to a corresponding slot that is not occurring during non working time. Time slots of a template planning period may be with different capacity assigned. For example during the different hours of the day different work force and other resources might be available for performing the work. Thus different capacity may be assigned to the template slots of the template period. Thus capacity of the template slots is copied to corresponding slot in the planning period. In one embodiment capacity of slots from the sequence of slots of the template period is iteratively copied.

At a planning period from the number of following planning periods is selected to which period the template period is to be copied. In one embodiment periods from the number of following planning periods are selected one by one in accordance with the sequence of the following planning periods. At a start date and time of the selected planning period is determined in local time. At the determined start date and time of the selected planning period is converted from local time to UTC. Further the converted UTC starting time of the planning period is associated also as a starting time of the first slot of the planning period. In one embodiment the starting time of the planning period is a finishing time of a preceding planning period. In accordance with processes described herein the finishing time of the preceding planning period is generated beyond a transition period and thus is correspondingly convertible to UTC.

At end date and time of the selected planning period is determined in local time. The end time of the selected planning period may be determined based on the starting time of the period and the time length of the template period. At a check is performed if the determined end date and time in local time belongs to a transition period. If the end date and time of the selected planning period is not a point in time that belongs to a transition period at the end date and time of the planning period is converted from local time to UTC. In one embodiment the template planning period and the following planning periods represent calendar weeks. Start and end date and time of calendar weeks according to current DST practice do not overlap with a transition period. Accordingly if the end date and time of the selected planning period belongs to a transition period the process may stop according to one embodiment.

At a check is performed if there is a slot that is already generated in the selected planning period. For example if the end timestamp of the preceding planning period belongs to the selected planning period then there is a slot that is already generated and that belongs to the selected planning period. If there is a slot that is already generated in the selected planning period at the start date and time of the planning period is overwritten with the end date and time of the latest existing slot. For example the start date and time of the planning period may be assigned the ending time of the last slot of the preceding planning period.

At a check is performed if a start timestamp of a next slot is equal or greater than the end date and time of the planning period. If the start timestamp of the next slot is equal or greater than the end date and time of the planning period then the time slots for the planning period are already generated. In one embodiment once time slots of the planning period are generated automatically capacity of the slots of the template period is copied to the selected planning period in accordance with process in .

If the start timestamp of the next slot is less than or before the end date and time of the planning period at a start timestamp of next slot to be generated in the planning period is converted from local time to UTC time. At the end timestamp of the next slot is determined in local time. At a check is performed if the next slot to be generated overlap with a transition period. If the next slot overlaps with a transition period at the slot is prolonged beyond the transition.

At the end timestamp of the next slot to be generated is converted from local time to UTC time. In one embodiment in case the next slot to be generated overlaps with a transition period the prolonged end timestamp of the next slot is converted from local time to UTC time. At the next slot is generated based on the start and end timestamps of the next slot that are converted UTC. Thus start and end timestamp of generated slots are also kept and represented in UTC time in addition to the local time.

At the end timestamp in UTC time of the generated time slot is assigned or set as a start timestamp of a next slot to be generated in the planning period. Thus since the start timestamps are identical with end timestamps of preceding slots start time of slots are also points in time that are correspondingly convertible to UTC.

In one embodiment generated slots for the planning period are generated in a sequence of slots with regular time length. For example the generated planning period is generated based on a pattern of slots with standard time length such as in a time grid e.g. time grid in . In case a slot in the planning period that overlaps with a transition period is prolonged the pattern of the planning period is nevertheless sustained. Slots are generated in sequence where the end timestamp of each slot is identical to the start timestamp of the next slot in the sequence of slots of the planning period.

In one embodiment once time slots of the planning period are generated capacity of the slots from the template period may be correspondingly copied. Further process may continue with generating a next planning period from the sequence of planning periods and copying the template period to the next planning period until requested number of following planning periods are generated.

It is common that time slots are generated for a particular planning period where the start timestamp of each slot in the sequence is the end timestamp of the preceding slot with the exception of the first slot. For example it is common that time slots are generated for a calendar week. The first slot in the sequence has a start timestamp that typically does not overlap with a transition period for example timestamp 00 00 00 at midnight between Sunday and Monday is a common starting time of the first slot. Such 00 00 00 timestamp according to current DST practice typically does not overlap with transition periods. On one hand usually the first slot in the sequence is with start timestamp that is accurately convertible to an international standard time. Also as illustrated in slot prolongation process prolongs a time slot by moving the end timestamp forward in time if the end timestamp overlaps with a transition period. On the other hand slots in the sequence except for the first slot has a start timestamp that is identical to the end timestamp of the previous slot which end timestamps are accurately convertible to an international standard time in accordance with slot prolongation process . Thus typically start timestamps of slots of a planning period are accurately convertible to a standard time and only end timestamps may have to be moved forward in time if they overlap with a transition period.

Some embodiments may include the above described methods being written as one or more software components. These components and the functionality associated with each may be used by client server distributed or peer computer systems. These components may be written in a computer language corresponding to one or more programming languages such as functional declarative procedural object oriented lower level languages and the like. They may be linked to other components via various application programming interfaces and then compiled into one complete application for a server or a client. Alternatively the components maybe implemented in server and client applications. Further these components may be linked together via various distributed programming protocols. Some example embodiments may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of these components across a distributed programming environment. For example a logic level may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system containing an interface level e.g. a graphical user interface . These first and second computer systems can be configured in a server client peer to peer or some other configuration. The clients can vary in complexity from mobile and handheld devices to thin clients and on to thick clients or even other servers.

The above illustrated software components are tangibly stored on a computer readable storage medium as instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media that stores one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include any physical article that is capable of undergoing a set of physical changes to physically store encode or otherwise carry a set of instructions for execution by a computer system which causes the computer system to perform any of the methods or process steps described represented or illustrated herein. Examples of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROMs DVDs and holographic devices magneto optical media and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer readable instructions include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example an embodiment may be implemented using Java C or other object oriented programming language and development tools. Another embodiment may be implemented in hard wired circuitry in place of or in combination with machine readable software instructions.

A data source is an information resource. Data sources include sources of data that enable data storage and retrieval. Data sources may include databases such as relational transactional hierarchical multi dimensional e.g. OLAP object oriented databases and the like. Further data sources include tabular data e.g. spreadsheets delimited text files data tagged with a markup language e.g. XML data transactional data unstructured data e.g. text files screen scrapings hierarchical data e.g. data in a file system XML data files a plurality of reports and any other data source accessible through an established protocol such as Open DataBase Connectivity ODBC produced by an underlying software system e.g. ERP system and the like. Data sources may also include a data source where the data is not tangibly stored or otherwise ephemeral such as data streams broadcast data and the like. These data sources can include associated data foundations semantic layers management systems security systems and so on.

In the above description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the embodiments can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components techniques etc. In other instances well known operations or structures are not shown or described in detail.

Although the processes illustrated and described herein include series of steps it will be appreciated that the different embodiments are not limited by the illustrated ordering of steps as some steps may occur in different orders some concurrently with other steps apart from that shown and described herein. In addition not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the one or more embodiments. Moreover it will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented in association with the apparatus and systems illustrated and described herein as well as in association with other systems not illustrated.

The above descriptions and illustrations of embodiments including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the one or more embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for the invention are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. These modifications can be made in light of the above detailed description. Rather the scope is to be determined by the following claims which are to be interpreted in accordance with established doctrines of claim construction.

