---

title: Multi-axial explosive, laterally-shearing, reactive mechanism
abstract: Reactive armor that includes a casing having a plurality of walls, a back, and a cavity formed therebetween; a cover that closes the cavity and forms a strike face; a filler placed within the cavity, the filler comprising a disruptive material; and an explosive. To defeat projectile or projectile related threats, the reactive armor substantially, but not necessarily wholly, implements laterally oriented force mechanisms, erosion mechanisms, and bulking mechanisms, e.g., explosive forces, with respect to the strike face.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08485084&OS=08485084&RS=08485084
owner: The United States of America as a represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08485084
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120726
---
This application is a divisional application of application Ser. No. 12 948 250 filed Nov. 17 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 272 311.

The invention described here may be made used and licensed by and for the U.S. Government for governmental purposes without paying royalty to me.

Conventional reactive armor implementations as known to one of skill in the art are shown in some examples in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 665 794 5 012 721 5 025 707 5 637 824 5 824 941 6 345 563 6 880 445 7 077 048 7 424 845 and 7 603 939 and U.S. Application Publication 2006 0065111. A further reference noted as known to one of skill in the art is U.S. Army Field Manual 5 250 Explosives and Demolitions June 1992 hereinafter FM 5 250 .

In U.S. Pat. No. 5 025 707 707 a reactive armor e.g. a protective apparatus or device is disclosed that has disruptive material which impinges on a penetrating threat to destroy the integrity of the threat and prevent incursion into the interior of an armored vehicle or other protected region see Abstract and Detailed Description at col. 2 lines 39 46 . The use of lateral oriented with respect to a nominal strike face force mechanisms to defeat projectile threats including shaped charged threats are found for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 824 941 941 see FIG. 1 and related description especially at col. 2 lines 19 28 in U.S. Pat. No. 4 665 794 794 see FIG. 1 and related discussion at col. 2 lines 36 57 random orientation of elements 3 will inherently cause lateral forces for some orientations of projectile impact and defeat element alignment and in the U.S. Application No. 2006 0065111 111 see FIGS. 12 19 and related discussion in paragraphs 0067 0071 . The 111 application also discloses sequenced interaction as does U.S. Pat. No. 6 345 563 563 see the Fig. and related description at col. 2 lines 51 67 the 707 patent see description at col. 4 lines 1 11 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 880 445 445 see for example FIG. 5C and description at col. 5 lines 15 22 . Further examples of substantially lateral force defeat of projectile impingement are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 721 on FIG. 2 and at col. 3 lines 43 47 U.S. Pat. No. 5 637 824 824 on FIGS. 2 a 2 d and at col. 4 line 47 bridging through col. 5 line 7 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 424 845 FIGS. 1 and 2 .

The projectile defeat use of glass or ceramic material that is block sheet or plate shaped or round cylindrical rod tube or pellet or hex shaped rod or pellet material are shown for example in the 111 application on FIGS. 2 and 3 the 794 patent on FIGS. 7 9 the 941 patent as element 14 in FIG. 1 the 824 patent on 2 and at col. 3 lines 52 59 in U.S. Pat. No. 7 077 048 as element 140 on FIG. 6B and in U.S. Pat. No. 7 603 939 on FIG. 2.

The use of sheet or foil explosive on the bottom and a plurality of walls of the protective device is disclosed in for example the 941 patent the 563 patent element 31 and the 445 patent on FIGS. 3 4 and 5A 5D .

The placement of explosive material in a cross shape is illustrated for example in the 445 patent on FIGS. 2 and 3.

The use of a plurality of rod shaped explosive elements distributed within the protective device is disclosed in for example the 794 patent as element 5 and the 563 patent as elements 14 and 19. In the 563 patent the rod explosive elements are implemented in connection with sheet explosive element 31 at the back of the protective device.

The implementation of detonation cord in connection with other explosive and non explosive elements by way of positioning placement threading tying weaving and the like is illustrated for example in FM 5 250 on FIGS. 2 14 and 15 2 19 2 20 and 2 27 through 2 29.

However conventional reactive armor generally presents compromises and limitations in performance generally manifested as potential hazard to nearby individuals and or equipment collateral damage and the like. As such there is a desire for improved reactive armor.

The present invention is directed to reactive armor e.g. a reactive armor system a protective device apparatus and the like . In accordance with the reactive armor of the present invention substantially predominantly but not necessarily wholly laterally oriented with respect to a nominal strike face force mechanisms e.g. explosive forces may be implemented to defeat projectile or projectile related threats while potentially minimizing collateral damage fratricide or injury. In particular projectile defeat via use of pre fragmented or fragmentable e.g. glass borosilicate glass ceramic or the like material that is for example in blocks plate shaped sheets round cylindrical rod or pellet hex shaped rod or pellet material wherein a plurality of particles may be implemented or generated and rapidly forced into the projectile and projectile intrusion when the fragmentable material is shattered by explosive forces. The explosive forces may be sequenced to achieve the desired disruptive effects.

The above features and other features and advantages of the present invention are readily apparent from the following detailed descriptions thereof when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings.

Definitions and terminology The following definitions and terminology are applied as understood by one skilled in the appropriate art. The singular forms such as a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. For example reference to a material includes reference to one or more of such materials having the same or similar properties. As used herein essentially substantial and about when used in reference to a quantity or amount of a dimensional unit material characteristic parameter and the like refer to an amount or quantity that is sufficient to provide an effect that the material or characteristic was intended to provide as understood by one skilled in the art. The amount of variation generally depends on the specific implementation.

With reference to the Figures the preferred embodiments will now be described in detail. Generally the present invention provides an improved system for reactive armor. Structures that may be protected by a reactive armor according to the present invention are vehicles such as tanks armored personnel carriers armored fighting vehicles armored static structures such as buildings above ground portions of bunkers or shelters containers for the storage of water fuel chemicals munitions and the like. The reactive armor system according to the present invention may be implemented as stand alone armor or alternatively may be implemented in connection with e.g. integrated with conventional passive armor.

One embodiment is generally directed to reactive armor that includes a casing having a plurality of walls a back and a rectangular shaped cavity formed therebetween a cover that closes the cavity and forms a strike face a filler placed within the cavity the filler comprising a disruptive material and an explosive. The cavity includes sheets of the explosive having edges facing the strike face the placement of the sheets of the explosive when viewed from the strike face is implemented as four sheets of the explosive that are positioned with major faces against essentially half of a respective inner surface of a wall such that no two sheets of the explosive are adjacent to each other and such that no two sheets of the explosive directly face each other and the spaces at the wall that results from the implementation of the explosive on one half of the inner surface of the wall is filled with first sheets of the filler.

The filler further comprises a plurality of second sheets sized similarly to and parallel to the sheets of explosive and the second sheets of the filler having edges facing the strike face and the second sheets of the filler are arranged and positioned in four first groupings that are perpendicular to one another within the casing.

Interior to the sheets of the explosive and the first sheets of the filler the cavity is filled with a plurality of adjacent rods of the filler material having ends facing the back and the strike face. The rods of the filler may be implemented as rows having alternating hexagonal and cylindrical shape that is one row of rods of the filler having a hexagonal cross section followed by a row of rods of the filler having a circular cross section. The rods of the filler may be implemented as nested rows having hexagonal shape. The rods of the filler may be implemented as rows having cylindrical shape.

Interior to the sheets of the explosive and the first sheets of the filler the cavity may be filled with filler that comprises one of i a plurality of second sheets or ii a block having the major faces positioned to face the back and the strike face.

The explosive may be further implemented within the casing in connection with at least one of the back and the cover as comb shaped quadrants that are at 90 degree intervals of rotation to one another where each of the quadrants has a first leg that is substantially adjacent to a one half of a respective wall and a plurality of second legs that extend perpendicular from one side of the respective first leg and that are directed towards the center of the casing.

The explosive may be further implemented within the casing in connection with at least one of the back and the cover in four second groupings that are at 90 degree intervals of rotation to one another and each of the second groupings has a first leg that substantially bisects one half of a respective wall and is perpendicular to the respective wall and a pair of a plurality of second legs that extend perpendicular from a respective first leg and that are directed outward from both sides of the first leg substantially parallel to the wall that is intersected by the first leg and that are staggered such that the second legs on opposite sides of the first leg do not intersect at the first leg.

Another embodiment may be directed to reactive armor that includes a casing having a plurality of walls a back and a rectangular shaped cavity formed therebetween a cover that closes the cavity and forms a strike face a filler placed within the cavity the filler comprising a disruptive material and an explosive wherein the cavity includes the explosive interspersed within the cavity between elements of the filler.

The filler may be implemented as adjacent cylindrical rods having circular cross sectional ends that face the back and the strike face and the explosive is implemented as at least one of cylindrical sticks rods and detonation cord that is inserted or threaded in the spaces between the rods of the filler.

The filler may be implemented as adjacent cylindrical rods having circular cross sectional ends that face the back and the strike face and the filler is implemented in quadrants within the casing wherein the quadrants are defined by sheets of the explosive traversing the interior in a substantially cross shape that bisects each of the walls.

The armor cavity may include sheets of the explosive having edges facing the strike face and sheets of the filler having edges facing the strike face the sheets of the explosive and the sheets of the filler are arranged and positioned in four first groupings within the casing such that adjacent first groupings are perpendicular to one another the placement of the sheets of the explosive when viewed from the strike face is implemented as a pair of broken Ts where sheets of the explosive are sandwiched substantially centrally within of the sheets of the filler in the first groupings and oriented upside down with respect to each other.

The explosive may be further implemented within the casing in connection with at least one of the back and the cover in four second groupings that are at 90 degree intervals of rotation to one another and each of the second groupings has a first leg that substantially bisects one half of a respective wall and is perpendicular to the respective wall and a pair of a plurality of second legs that extend perpendicular from a respective first leg and that are directed outward from both sides of the first leg substantially parallel to the wall that is intersected by the first leg and that are staggered such that the second legs on opposite sides of the first leg do not intersect at the first leg.

Yet another embodiment is generally directed to reactive armor including a casing having a plurality of walls a back and a rectangular shaped cavity formed therebetween a cover that closes the cavity and forms a strike face a filler placed within the cavity the filler comprising a disruptive material and an explosive wherein two sheets of the explosive are implemented on the interior surfaces of an opposing pair of the walls.

The filler may further include a plurality of sheets and the sheets of the filler having edges facing the strike face the sheets of the filler are positioned with major faces against essentially half of a respective inner surface of a wall and the sheets of the filler are arranged and positioned in four groupings wherein adjacent groupings are perpendicular to one another within the casing.

The filler further may further include a plurality of adjacent sheets of the filler placed with major faces parallel to the sheets of the explosive and with edges positioned to face the back and the strike face.

The filler may further comprise a plurality of adjacently placed rods that are oriented with the longitudinal axes facing the strike face and having the ends directed at the walls not having the explosive on the interior surface.

The explosive may be further implemented within the casing as a plurality of trough configured shaped charges that are positioned to impinge directed forces on the major faces of the sheets of the filler.

Referring to an embodiment of a reactive armor i.e. protective system apparatus device etc. is shown. Referring to a sectional view along the line of is shown. The reactive armor generally comprises a casing wherein the casing generally includes four walls e.g. walls a back or base which is generally positioned away from threats and a top cover which is nominally i.e. in most instances a metal strike face that is subjected to impact from a threat . The walls and the back generally form a box shaped e.g. prismatic orthorhombic cubical and the like cavity e.g. an interior inside of the casing and the cavity may be closed by the cover .

When impacting the armor the threat generally causes an intrusion into the cavity . The threat and respective intrusion may be one or more projectiles metal fragments fluid metals penetrating jets thorns spikes etc. as generated by chemical energy rounds high energy kinetic rounds and the like. The armor may potentially mitigate disrupt diminish reduce and or eliminate damaging or harmful effects of the intrusion from the threat and collateral effects. The armor is generally positioned such that the cover faces the anticipated direction of the threat and the area to be protected is thus behind the back .

Inside the cavity an explosive e.g. propellant pyrotechnic and the like may be implemented e.g. applied placed affixed installed or the like as at least one of sheets flat and shaped lines strips cords rods and arrays matrices on at least one of one or more of the walls the casing back and the cover and a fragmentable disruptive filler material may be implemented as a filler to the cavity . The explosive may also extend away from one or more of the walls the back and the cover in the form of one or more granules rows sheets panels cords lines and or rods into interstitial to intermingled with overlapping with dispersed within threaded or woven within and the like relative to the filler material . When initiated i.e. ignited activated exploded set off etc. the explosive may generate an force F shown in phantom . The force F alone and generally in combination with the filler may disrupt the intrusion .

The explosive that extends into the filler area may be adjacent to or contiguous with the explosive that may be implemented on or against the walls the casing back and the cover . The area of coverage on the walls and the casing back as well as the configuration e.g. composition potency type shape diameter thickness height width etc. of the explosive may be chosen e.g. calculated determined devised etc. to meet the design criteria of a particular application e.g. initiation sequencing and direction of the resultant explosive forces anticipated threat construction of the casing type and configuration of the explosive type and configuration of material and the like . Further embodiments of the configuration of the type and coverage of the explosive and the filler material are illustrated on and described in detail below.

The filler comprises a penetrator resistant e.g. disruptive material such as sand glass ceramic e.g. silicon nitride silicon carbide zirconia alumina and the like borosilicate glass and the like that are placed within the cavity . In some examples the disruptive filler material may be implemented in a pre fragmented e.g. particulate balls granules grains and the like state as illustrated on .

In other examples the fragmentable disruptive material may be implemented shaped as blocks sheets plates tiles rods having cylindrical hexagonal or other cross sectional shape and the like that are placed within the cavity . When implemented as blocks sheets or plates the fragmentable material may be implemented having major faces towards the walls in some examples and implemented having major faces towards the back and the cover in other examples and in combinational arrangement in yet other examples.

The intrusion generally detonates the explosive such that the explosive material may perform as an initiator and also provide further explosive force generation. That is the intrusion generally detonates the explosive such that substantially lateral i.e. inward from the walls and towards the intrusion forces cause the filler to disrupt the intrusion e.g. via erosion mechanisms and bulking mechanisms . Implementation of such substantially lateral forces rather than substantially outward i.e. away from the back and towards the cover forces generally keep the forces and fragmented material inside of the cavity and may potentially reduce the risk of damage to equipment fratricide or injury to nearby individuals external to the system .

Referring to embodiments of the armor illustrating the interior of the armor with the cover removed i.e. plan views are shown. For simplicity but not as a limitation the casing is shown having a substantially square shape.

Referring to the interior cavity includes sheets of the explosive and sheets or plates of the filler having respective edges facing outward i.e. toward the strike face . The sheets of the explosive and the sheets of the filler are arranged and positioned in quadrants i.e. in four groupings that are perpendicular i.e. rotated 90 degrees to one another within the casing . Four sheets of the explosive are positioned with major faces against adjacent to essentially e.g. about substantially and the like half of a respective wall such that no two sheets of the explosive are adjacent to each other and such that no two sheets of the explosive directly face each other. The space gap at the wall that results from the implementation of the explosive on one half of the inner surface of the wall is generally filled with first sheets of the filler . A plurality of second sheets of the filler sized similarly to and parallel to the sheets of explosive extend inward. In the embodiment of the armor that is illustrated on the second sheets of the filler that are interior within the cavity relative to the sheets of the explosive may be implemented significantly thicker e.g. at least twice as thick as the sheets of the explosive .

Referring to the sheets of the explosive material may be implemented on the interior of walls similarly to the embodiments of the armor that are illustrated in . Likewise sheets of the filler may be implemented adjacent to the walls to fill the gaps along the walls . Interior to the sheets of the explosive and the sheets of the filler the cavity is generally filled with adjacent rods of the filler material having ends facing the back and the strike face .

In the embodiment of the armor illustrated on the rods of the filler are generally implemented as rows or columns having alternating hexagonal and cylindrical shape that is one row of rods of the filler having a hexagonal cross section followed by a row of rods of the filler having a circular cross section. In the embodiment of the armor illustrated on the rods of the filler are generally implemented as nested rows and columns having hexagonal shape. In the embodiment of the armor illustrated on the rods of the filler are generally implemented as rows and columns having cylindrical shape.

Referring to the filler may be implemented as adjacent cylindrical rods having circular cross sectional ends that face the back and the strike face similar to the embodiment of the armor that is illustrated on however the explosive may be implemented as cylindrical sticks rods or detonation cord that is inserted or threaded woven in the spaces gaps between the rods of the filler . When the explosive is implemented as a continuous cord the explosive generally extends across the inner surfaces of the back and the cover between the rods of the filler . Similarly the explosive may be implemented as a powder grains granules or the like that is placed dispersed in the spaces between the rods of the filler .

Referring to the filler may be implemented as adjacent cylindrical rods having circular cross sectional ends that face the back and the strike face similar to the embodiment of the armor that is illustrated on however the filler may be implemented in quadrants within the casing that are defined by sheets of the explosive traversing the interior in a substantially plus or cross shape that bisects each of the walls .

Referring to the sheets of the explosive material may be implemented on the interior of the walls similarly to the embodiments of the armor that are illustrated on . Likewise sheets of the filler may be implemented adjacent to the walls to fill the gaps along the walls . The remainder of interior to the casing may be filled with the fragmentable filler material in the form of sheets or a block having the major faces positioned to face the back and the strike face .

Referring to two sheets of the explosive material may be implemented on the interior surfaces of an opposing pair of the walls . The remainder of the interior may be filled with sheets of the filler similarly to embodiments of the armor that are illustrated on .

Referring to two sheets of the explosive material may be implemented on the interior surfaces of an opposing pair of the walls similarly to embodiment of the armor that is illustrated on . The remainder of the interior may be filled with adjacent sheets of the filler placed with major faces parallel to the sheets of the explosive and edges positioned to face the back and the strike face .

Referring to the placement of explosive sheets when viewed from the nominal strike face may be implemented as a pair of broken Ts i.e. the cross bar and the vertical bar of the T shape are separated that are placed sandwiched substantially centrally within the sheets of the fragmentable material and oriented upside down with respect to each other. The positioning of the sheets of the filler may be otherwise implemented as four first groupings arrays matrices and the like in quadrants within the casing substantially as illustrated on . Alternatively the embodiment of the armor that is illustrated on may be described as the sheets of the explosive and the filler are arranged and positioned in quadrants i.e. in four first groupings within the casing that are perpendicular i.e. rotated 90 degrees to one another in succession wherein each of the four sheets of the explosive are placed sandwiched substantially centrally within the sheets of the fragmentable disruptive material .

Referring to sectional views of the armor when viewed from the side e.g. with the wall removed are illustrated. Referring in particular to a sectional view taken at the line of the embodiment of the armor that is illustrated on is shown. The cover is shown in the typically mounted position.

Referring to another embodiment of the armor is illustrated. The embodiment of the armor that is illustrated on may be implemented similarly to the embodiment of the armor that is illustrated on . However the embodiment of the armor that is illustrated on may implement the sheets of the explosive as a plurality of trough configured shaped charges that are positioned to impinge the directed force F on the major faces of the sheets of the filler . The walls and may be scalloped to provide cavities . The cavities may be i substantially empty in one example ii filled with the explosive in another example and iii filled with the filler in yet another example.

Referring to another embodiment of the armor is illustrated. The filler may comprise a plurality of adjacently placed rods that are oriented with the longitudinal axes facing the strike face and having the ends directed at the walls not having the explosive on the interior surface i.e. the walls and . While cylindrical rods i.e. rods having a circular cross sectional shape of the filler are illustrated on any appropriate cross sectional shape may be implemented.

Referring to example embodiments of the explosive as may be implemented within the casing in connection with the back and the cover are illustrated. For clarity of illustration the walls are shown in phantom. The explosive may be implemented as arrays matrices of strips rods cords or the like. Such an implementation may provide initiation to other implementations of the explosive e.g. the explosive that is sandwiched with the filler the explosive that is implemented adjacent to the walls and the like and reduce the outward directed explosive force and thus may potentially reduce or mitigate collateral damage fratricide and injury while effectively providing disruption to the intrusion .

Referring to the explosive may be implemented as comb shaped second quadrants i.e. in four second groupings explosive initiators within the casing and that are at 90 degree intervals of rotation to one another. Each of the quadrants may have a first leg or bar that is substantially adjacent to a one half of a respective wall and a plurality of second legs or bars that extend perpendicular from one side of the respective first leg and that are directed inward i.e. towards the center of the casing . The implementation of the explosive that is illustrated on may be advantageously implemented in connection with the embodiments of the armor that are illustrated on and .

Referring to the explosive may be implemented as second quadrants i.e. in four second groupings explosive groupings initiators within the casing and that are at 90 degree intervals of rotation to one another. Each of the quadrants of second groupings may have a first leg or bar that substantially bisects one half of a respective wall and is perpendicular to the respective wall and a pair of a plurality of second legs or bars that extend perpendicular from a respective first leg and that are directed outward from both sides of the first leg substantially parallel to the wall that is intersected by the first leg and that are staggered such that the second legs on opposite sides of the first leg do not intersect at the first leg and are generally parallel to the sheets of filler . The implementation of the explosive that is illustrated on may be advantageously implemented in connection with the embodiment of the armor that is illustrated on .

As is apparent then from the above detailed description the present invention may provide an improved system for reactive armor.

Various alterations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of this invention and it is understood this invention is limited only by the following claims.

