---

title: Method and system for electronic content storage and retrieval with galois fields on cloud computing networks
abstract: A method and system for electronic content storage and retrieval with Galois Fields on cloud computing networks. The electronic content is divided into plural portions and stored in plural cloud storage objects. Storage locations for the plural cloud storage objects are selected using a Galois field and the plural cloud storage objects are distributed across the cloud network. When the electronic content is requested, the plural portions are retrieved and transparently combined back into the original electronic content. No server network devices or target network devices can individually determine locations of all portions of the electronic content on the cloud communications network, thereby providing layers of security and privacy for the electronic content on the cloud communications network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09037564&OS=09037564&RS=09037564
owner: 
number: 09037564
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120509
---
This application is a Continuation In Part CIP of U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 13 097 227 filed Apr. 29 2011 the contents of which is incorporated by reference.

This invention relates to retrieving electronic information over a computer network. More specifically it relates to a method and system for electronic content storage and retrieval with Galois fields on cloud computing networks.

 Cloud computing is a term used to identify the delivery of computing requirements as a service to a heterogeneous community of end recipients. The term cloud theoretically signifies abstraction of technology resources and locations that are used in building an integrated computing infrastructure including networks systems applications etc. . All Cloud computing models rely heavily on sharing of resources to achieve coherence and economies of scale similar to a utility like a grid for electricity over a network.

Cloud computing provides services with a user s data software and computation on over multiple networks. End users access cloud based applications through a web browser or a light weight desktop or mobile application while the rest of the application software and data are stored on servers at remote locations. Cloud computing provides a same or better service and performance with cloud software programs as if al the cloud software programs were actually installed locally on end user devices.

At the foundation of cloud computing is the broader concept of infrastructure convergence and shared services. This type of cloud computing environment allows enterprises to get their applications up and running faster with easier manageability and less maintenance and enables the enterprise to more rapidly adjust resources such as servers storage and networking to meet fluctuating and unpredictable business demand.

However there are a number of problems associated with electronic content storage and retrieval on cloud computing network.

Another problem is providing proper privacy and security for electronic content stored and retrieved on cloud computing networks.

Thus it is desirable to solve some of the problems associated with content storage and retrieval with cloud computing networks.

In accordance with preferred embodiments of the present invention some of the problems associated with electronic content storage and retrieval on cloud computing networks are overcome. A method and system for electronic content storage and retrieval on cloud computing networks is presented.

The electronic content is divided into plural portions and stored in plural cloud storage objects. Storage locations for the plural cloud storage objects are selected using a Galois field and the plural cloud storage objects are distributed to various locations across the cloud network. When the electronic content is requested the plural portions are retrieved and transparently combined back into the original electronic content. No server network devices storing the plural cloud storage objects can individually determine locations of all portions of the electronic content on the cloud communications network thereby providing a first layer of security and privacy for the electronic content on the cloud communications network. No target network devices requesting the electronic content can determine where the electronic content is stored thereby providing a second layer of security and privacy for the electronic content on the cloud communications network.

The foregoing and other features and advantages of preferred embodiments of the present invention will be more readily apparent from the following detailed description. The detailed description proceeds with references to the accompanying drawings.

The one or more target network devices include but are not limited to multimedia capable desktop and laptop computers tablet computers facsimile machines mobile phones non mobile phones smart phones Internet phones Internet appliances personal digital data assistants PDA two way pagers digital cameras portable game consoles Play Station Portable by Sony Game Boy by Sony Nintendo DSI etc. non portable game consoles Xbox by Microsoft Play Station by Sony Wii by Nintendo etc. cable television CATV satellite television SATV and Internet television set top boxes digital televisions including high definition television HDTV three dimensional 3DTV televisions and other types of network devices.

The one or more smart network devices include smart phones such as the iPhone by Apple Inc. Blackberry Storm and other Blackberry models by Research In Motion Inc. RIM Droid by Motorola Inc. HTC Inc. other types of smart phones etc. However the present invention is not limited to such smart phone devices and more fewer or other devices can be used to practice the invention.

A smart phone is a mobile phone that offers more advanced computing ability and connectivity than a contemporary basic feature phone. Smart phones and feature phones may be thought of as handheld computers integrated with a mobile telephone but while most feature phones are able to run applications based on platforms such as Java ME a smart phone usually allows the user to install and run more advanced applications. Smart phones and or tablet computers run complete operating system software providing a platform for application developers.

The operating systems include the iPhone OS Android Windows etc. iPhone OS is a proprietary operating system for the Apple iPhone. Android is an open source operating system platform backed by Google along with major hardware and software developers such as Intel HTC ARM Motorola and Samsung etc. that form the Open Handset Alliance.

The one or more smart network devices include tablet computers such as the iPad by Apple Inc. the HP Tablet by Hewlett Packard Inc. the Playbook by RIM Inc. the Tablet by Sony Inc.

The target network devices are in communications with a cloud communications network via one or more wired and or wireless communications interfaces. The cloud communications network is also called a cloud computing network herein and the terms may be used interchangeably.

The plural target network devices request desired electronic content etc. stored on the cloud communications network .

The cloud communications network includes but is not limited to communications over a wire connected to the target network devices wireless communications and other types of communications using one or more communications and or networking protocols.

Plural server network devices only four of which are illustrated each with one or more processors and a non transitory computer readable medium include one or more associated databases . The plural network devices are in communications with the one or more target devices via the cloud communications network .

Plural server network devices only four of which are illustrated are physically located on one more public networks See private networks community networks and or hybrid networks comprising the cloud network .

One or more server network devices e.g. etc. securely stores a cloud content location map and other plural server network devices e.g. etc. store portions of desired electronic content as cloud storage objects as is described herein.

The plural server network devices include but are not limited to World Wide Web servers Internet servers search engine servers vertical search engine servers social networking site servers file servers other types of electronic information servers and other types of server network devices e.g. edge servers firewalls routers gateways etc. .

The plural server network devices also include but are not limited to network servers used for cloud computing providers etc.

The cloud communications network includes but is not limited to a wired and or wireless communications network comprising one or more portions of the Internet an intranet a Local Area Network LAN a wireless LAN WiLAN a Wide Area Network WAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a Wireless Personal Area Network WPAN and other types of wired and or wireless communications networks .

The cloud communications network includes one or more gateways routers bridges and or switches. A gateway connects computer networks using different network protocols and or operating at different transmission capacities. A router receives transmitted messages and forwards them to their correct destinations over the most efficient available route. A bridge is a device that connects networks using the same communications protocols so that information can be passed from one network device to another. A switch is a device that filters and forwards packets between network segments based on some pre determined sequence e.g. timing sequence number etc. .

An operating environment for the network devices of the exemplary electronic information display system include a processing system with one or more high speed Central Processing Unit s CPU processors one or more memories and or other types of non transitory computer readable mediums. In accordance with the practices of persons skilled in the art of computer programming the present invention is described below with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations or instructions that are performed by the processing system unless indicated otherwise. Such acts and operations or instructions are referred to as being computer executed CPU executed or processor executed. 

It will be appreciated that acts and symbolically represented operations or instructions include the manipulation of electrical information by the CPU or processor. An electrical system represents data bits which cause a resulting transformation or reduction of the electrical information or biological information and the maintenance of data bits at memory locations in a memory system to thereby reconfigure or otherwise alter the CPU s or processor s operation as well as other processing of information. The memory locations where data bits are maintained are physical locations that have particular electrical magnetic optical or organic properties corresponding to the data bits.

The data bits may also be maintained on a non transitory computer readable medium including magnetic disks optical disks organic memory and any other volatile e.g. Random Access Memory RAM or non volatile e.g. Read Only Memory ROM flash memory etc. mass storage system readable by the CPU. The non transitory computer readable medium includes cooperating or interconnected computer readable medium which exist exclusively on the processing system or can be distributed among multiple interconnected processing systems that may be local or remote to the processing system.

In one embodiment of the invention the cloud application is a software application. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and the cloud application can be hardware firmware hardware and or any combination thereof. However the present invention is not limited these embodiments and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention

In another embodiment a portion of the cloud application is executing on the target network devices and another portion of the application is executing on the server network devices However the present invention is not limited these embodiments and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

The network devices are connected to the communication network with Network Interface Card NIC cards including device drivers in a link layer for the actual hardware connecting the network devices to the cloud communications network . For example the NIC device drivers may include a serial port device driver a digital subscriber line DSL device driver an Ethernet device driver a wireless device driver a wired device driver etc. The device drivers interface with the actual hardware being used to connect the network devices to the cloud communications network . The NIC cards have a medium access control MAC address that is unique to each NIC and unique across the whole cloud network . The Medium Access Control MAC protocol is used to provide a data link layer of an Ethernet LAN system and for other network systems.

Above the link layer is a network layer also called the Internet Layer for Internet Protocol IP suites . The network layer includes but is not limited to an IP layer .

IP is an addressing protocol designed to route traffic within a network or between networks. However more fewer or other protocols can also be used in the network layer and the present invention is not limited to IP . For more information on IP see IETF RFC 791 incorporated herein by reference.

Above network layer is a transport layer . The transport layer includes but is not limited to an optional Internet Group Management Protocol IGMP layer a Internet Control Message Protocol ICMP layer a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer and a User Datagram Protocol UDP layer . However more fewer or other protocols could also be used in the transport layer .

Optional IGMP layer hereinafter IGMP is responsible for multicasting. For more information on IGMP see RFC 1112 incorporated herein by reference. ICMP layer hereinafter ICMP is used for IP control. The main functions of ICMP include error reporting reachability testing e.g. pinging etc. route change notification performance subnet addressing and other maintenance. For more information on ICMP see RFC 792 incorporated herein by reference. Both IGMP and ICMP are not required in the protocol stack . ICMP can be used alone without optional IGMP layer .

TCP layer hereinafter TCP provides a connection oriented end to end reliable protocol designed to fit into a layered hierarchy of protocols which support multi network applications. TCP provides for reliable inter process communication between pairs of processes in network devices attached to distinct but interconnected networks. For more information on TCP see RFC 793 incorporated herein by reference.

UDP layer hereinafter UDP provides a connectionless mode of communications with datagrams in an interconnected set of computer networks. UDP provides a transaction oriented datagram protocol where delivery and duplicate packet protection are not guaranteed. For more information on UDP see RFC 768 incorporated herein by reference. Both TCP and UDP are not required in protocol stack . Either TCP or UDP can be used without the other.

Above transport layer is an application layer where application programs e.g. etc. to carry out desired functionality for a network device reside. For example the application programs for the client network devices may include a web browsers or other application programs cloud application program while application programs for the server network devices may include other application programs e.g. etc. .

However the protocol stack is not limited to the protocol layers illustrated and more fewer or other layers and protocols can also be used in protocol stack . In addition other protocols from the Internet Protocol suites e.g. Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP File Transfer Protocol FTP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP DNS etc. and or other protocols from other protocol suites may also be used in protocol stack .

Preferred embodiments of the present invention include network devices and wired and wireless interfaces that are compliant with all or part of standards proposed by the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE International Telecommunications Union Telecommunication Standardization Sector ITU European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI Internet Engineering Task Force IETF U.S. National Institute of Security Technology NIST American National Standard Institute ANSI Wireless Application Protocol WAP Forum Bluetooth Forum or the ADSL Forum. However network devices based on other standards could also be used. IEEE standards can be found on the World Wide Web at the Universal Resource Locator domain name www.ieee.org. The ITU formerly known as the CCITT standards can be found at the domain name www.itu.ch. ETSI standards can be found at the domain name www.etsi.org. IETF standards can be found at the domain name www.ietf.org. The NIST standards can be found at the domain name www.nist.gov. The ANSI standards can be found at the domain name www.ansi.org. Bluetooth Forum documents can be found at the domain name www.bluetooth.com. WAP Forum documents can be found at the domain name www.wapforum.org. ADSL Forum documents can be found at the domain name www.adsl.com. 

In one embodiment of the present invention the wireless interfaces on network devices include but are not limited to 3G and or 4G IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n 802.15.4 ZigBee Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX ETSI High Performance Radio Metropolitan Area Network HIPERMAN or RF Home wireless interfaces. In another embodiment of the present invention the wireless sensor device may include an integral or separate Bluetooth and or infra data association IrDA module for wireless Bluetooth or wireless infrared communications. However the present invention is not limited to such an embodiment and other 802.11xx and other types of wireless interfaces can also be used.

802.11b is a short range wireless network standard. The IEEE 802.11b standard defines wireless interfaces that provide up to 11 Mbps wireless data transmission to and from wireless devices over short ranges. 802.11a is an extension of the 802.11b and can deliver speeds up to 54 Mbps. 802.11g deliver speeds on par with 802.11a. However other 802.11XX interfaces can also be used and the present invention is not limited to the 802.11 protocols defined. The IEEE 802.11a 802.11b and 802.11g standards are incorporated herein by reference.

Wi Fi is a type of 802.11xx interface whether 802.11b 802.11a dual band etc. Wi Fi devices include an RF interfaces such as 2.4 GHz for 802.11b or 802.11g and 5 GHz for 802.11a. More information on Wi Fi can be found at the domain name www.weca.net.

802.15.4 Zigbee is low data rate network standard used for mesh network devices such as sensors interactive toys smart badges remote controls and home automation. The 802.15.4 standard provides data rates of 250 kbps 40 kbps and 20 kbps. two addressing modes 16 bit short and 64 bit IEEE addressing support for critical latency devices such as joysticks Carrier Sense Multiple Access Collision Avoidance CSMA CA channel access automatic network establishment by a coordinator fully handshaked protocol for transfer reliability power management to ensure low power consumption for multi month to multi year battery usage and up to 16 channels in the 2.4 GHz Industrial Scientific and Medical ISM band Worldwide 10 channels in the 915 MHz US and one channel in the 868 MHz band Europe . The IEEE 802.15.4 2003 standard is incorporated herein by reference. More information on 802.15.4 and ZigBee can be found at the domain name www.ieee802.org and www.zigbee.org respectively.

WiMAX is an industry trade organization formed by leading communications component and equipment companies to promote and certify compatibility and interoperability of broadband wireless access equipment that conforms to the IEEE 802.16XX and ETSI HIPERMAN. HIPERMAN is the European standard for metropolitan area networks MAN .

The IEEE The 802.16a and 802.16g standards are wireless MAN technology standard that provides a wireless alternative to cable DSL and T1 E1 for last mile broadband access. It is also used as complimentary technology to connect IEEE 802.11XX hot spots to the Internet.

The IEEE 802.16a standard for 2 11 GHz is a wireless MAN technology that provides broadband wireless connectivity to fixed portable and nomadic devices. It provides up to 50 kilometers of service area range allows users to get broadband connectivity without needing direct line of sight with the base station and provides total data rates of up to 280 Mbps per base station which is enough bandwidth to simultaneously support hundreds of businesses with T1 E1 type connectivity and thousands of homes with DSL type connectivity with a single base station. The IEEE 802.16g provides up to 100 Mbps.

The IEEE 802.16e standard is an extension to the approved IEEE 802.16 16a 16g standard. The purpose of 802.16e is to add limited mobility to the current standard which is designed for fixed operation.

The ESTI HIPERMAN standard is an interoperable broadband fixed wireless access standard for systems operating at radio frequencies between 2 GHz and 11 GHz.

The IEEE 802.16a 802.16e and 802.16g standards are incorporated herein by reference. More information on WiMAX can be found at the domain name www.wimaxforum.org. WiMAX can be used to provide a WLP.

The ETSI HIPERMAN standards TR 101 031 TR 101 475 TR 101 493 1 through TR 101 493 3 TR 101 761 1 through TR 101 761 4 TR 101 762 TR 101 763 1 through TR 101 763 3 and TR 101 957 are incorporated herein by reference. More information on ETSI standards can be found at the domain name www.etsi.org. ETSI HIPERMAN can be used to provide a WLP.

In one embodiment the plural server network devices include a connection to plural network interface cards NICs in a backplane connected to a communications bus. The NIC cards provide gigabit second 1 10bits second communications speed of electronic information. This allows scaling out for fast electronic content retrieval. The NICs are connected to the plural server network devices and the cloud communications network . However the present invention is not limited to the NICs described and other types of NICs in other configurations and connections with and or without a buses can also be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment network devices and wired and wireless interfaces including the NICs include 4G components. 4G refers to the fourth generation of wireless communications standards and speeds of 100 megabits second to gigabits second or more. 4G includes peak speed requirements for 4G service at least 100 Mbit s for high mobility communication e.g. trains vehicles etc. and 1 Gbit s for low mobility communication e.g. pedestrians and stationary users etc. .

4G technologies are a successor to 3G and 2G standards. The nomenclature of the generations generally refers to a change in the fundamental nature of the service. The first was the move from analogue 1G to digital 2G transmission. This was followed by multi media support spread spectrum transmission and at least 200 kbits second 3G . The 4G NICs include IP packet switched NICs wired and wireless ultra broadband i.e. gigabit speed access NICs Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX NICs WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE and or multi carrier transmission NICs. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and 1G 2G and 3G and or any combination thereof with or with 4G NICs can be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment of the invention the WiMAX interfaces includes WiMAX 4G Long Term Evolution LTE interfaces. The ITU announced in December 2010 that WiMAX and LTE are 4G technologies. One of the benefits of 4G LTE is the ability to take advantage of advanced topology networks including those on cloud communications networks such as optimized heterogeneous networks with a mix of macrocells with low power nodes such as picocells femtocells and new relay nodes. LTE further improves the capacity and coverage and helps ensures user fairness. 4G LTE also introduces multicarrier technologies for ultra wide bandwidth use up to 100 MHz of spectrum supporting very high data rates.

In one embodiment of the invention the wireless interfaces also include wireless personal area network WPAN interfaces. As is known in the art a WPAN is a personal area network for interconnecting devices centered around an individual person s devices in which the connections are wireless. A WPAN interconnects all the ordinary computing and communicating devices that a person has on their desk e.g. computer etc. or carry with them e.g. PDA mobile phone smart phone table computer two way pager etc. 

A key concept in WPAN technology is known as plugging in. In the ideal scenario when any two WPAN equipped devices come into close proximity within several meters and or feet of each other or within a few miles and or kilometers of a central server not illustrated they can communicate via wireless communications as if connected by a cable. WPAN devices can also lock out other devices selectively preventing needless interference or unauthorized access to secure information. Zigbee is one wireless protocol used on WPAN networks such as cloud communications network .

However the present invention is not limited to such wireless interfaces and wireless networks and more fewer and or other wireless interfaces can be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment of the present invention the wired interfaces include wired interfaces and corresponding networking protocols for wired connections to the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN and or a cable television network CATV and or satellite television networks SATV and or three dimensional television 3DTV including HDTV that connect the network devices via one or more twisted pairs of copper wires digital subscriber lines e.g. DSL ADSL VDSL etc. coaxial cable fiber optic cable other connection media or other connection interfaces. The PSTN is any public switched telephone network provided by AT T GTE Sprint MCI SBC Verizon and others. The CATV is any cable television network provided by the Comcast Time Warner etc. However the present invention is not limited to such wired interfaces and more fewer and or other wired interfaces can be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment the cloud applications provide cloud electronic content storage and retrieval services from television services over the cloud communications network . The television services include digital television services including but not limited to cable television satellite television high definition television three dimensional televisions and other types of network devices.

However the present invention is not limited to such television services and more fewer and or other television services can be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment the cloud applications provide cloud electronic content storage and retrieval services from Internet television services over the cloud communications network . The television services include Internet television Web TV and or Internet Protocol Television IPtv and or other broadcast television services.

 Internet television allows users to choose a program or the television show they want to watch from an archive of programs or from a channel directory. The two forms of viewing Internet television are streaming content directly to a media player or simply downloading a program to a viewer s set top box game console computer or other mesh network device.

 Web TV delivers digital content via non mesh broadband and mobile networks. The digital content is streamed to a viewer s set top box game console computer or other mesh network device.

 Internet Protocol television IPtv is a system through which Internet television services are delivered using the architecture and networking methods of the Internet Protocol Suite over a packet switched network infrastructure e.g. the Internet and broadband Internet access networks instead of being delivered through traditional radio frequency broadcast satellite signal and cable television formats.

However the present invention is not limited to such Internet Television services and more fewer and or other Internet Television services can be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment the cloud applications provide cloud electronic content storage and retrieval services from general search engine services. A search engine is designed to search for information on a cloud communications network such as the Internet including World Wide Web servers HTTP FTP servers etc. The search results are generally presented in a list of electronic results. The information may consist of web pages images electronic information multimedia information and other types of files. Some search engines also mine data available in databases or open directories. Unlike web directories which are maintained by human editors search engines typically operate algorithmically and or are a mixture of algorithmic and human input.

In one embodiment the cloud applications provide cloud electronic content storage and retrieval services from general search engine services. In another embodiment the cloud applications provide general search engine services by interacting with one or more other public search engines e.g. GOOGLE BING YAHOO etc. and or private search engine services.

In another embodiment the cloud applications provide electronic content storage and retrieval services from specialized search engine services such as vertical search engine services by interacting with one or more other public vertical search engines e.g. GALAXY.COM etc. and or private search engine services

However the present invention is not limited to such general and or vertical search engine services and more fewer and or other general search engine services can be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment the cloud applications provide cloud electronic content storage and retrieval services from one more social networking services including to from one or more social networking web sites e.g. FACEBOOK U TUBE TWITTER MY SPACE MATCH.COM E HARMONY GROUP ON SOCIAL LIVING etc. . The social networking web sites also include but are not limited to social couponing sites dating web sites blogs RSS feeds and other types of information web sites in which messages can be left or posted for a variety of social activities.

However the present invention is not limited to the social networking services described and other public and private social networking services can also be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment the cloud applications provide cloud electronic content storage and retrieval services from one more music downloading services e.g. iTunes Rhapsody etc. at one or more music downloading sites.

However the present invention is not limited to the social networking services described and other public and private social networking services can also be used to practice the invention.

Network devices with wired and or wireless interfaces of the present invention include one or more of the security and encryptions techniques discussed herein for secure communications on the cloud communications network .

Application programs include security and or encryption application programs integral to and or separate from the cloud applications Security and or encryption programs may also exist in hardware components on the network devices described herein and or exist in a combination of hardware software and or firmware.

Wireless Encryption Protocol WEP also called Wired Equivalent Privacy is a security protocol for WiLANs defined in the IEEE 802.11b standard. WEP is cryptographic privacy algorithm based on the Rivest Cipher 4 RC4 encryption engine used to provide confidentiality for 802.11b wireless data.

RC4 is cipher designed by RSA Data Security Inc. of Bedford Mass. which can accept encryption keys of arbitrary length and is essentially a pseudo random number generator with an output of the generator being XORed with a data stream to produce encrypted data.

One problem with WEP is that it is used at the two lowest layers of the OSI model the physical layer and the data link layer therefore it does not offer end to end security. One another problem with WEP is that its encryption keys are static rather than dynamic. To update WEP encryption keys an individual has to manually update a WEP key. WEP also typically uses bit static keys for encryption and thus provides weak encryption making a WEP device a target of hackers.

The IEEE 802.11 Working Group is working on a security upgrade for the 802.11 standard called 802.11i. This supplemental draft standard is intended to improve WiLAN security. It describes the encrypted transmission of data between systems 802.11X WiLANs. It also defines new encryption key protocols including the Temporal Key Integrity Protocol TKIP . The IEEE 802.11i draft standard version 4 completed Jun. 6 2003 is incorporated herein by reference.

The 802.11i is based on 802.1x port based authentication for user and device authentication. The 802.11i standard includes two main developments Wi Fi Protected Access WPA and Robust Security Network RSN .

WPA uses the same RC4 underlying encryption algorithm as WEP. However WPA uses TKIP to improve security of keys used with WEP. WPA keys are derived and rotated more often than WEP keys and thus provide additional security. WPA also adds a message integrity check function to prevent packet forgeries.

RSN uses dynamic negotiation of authentication and selectable encryption algorithms between wireless access points and wireless devices. The authentication schemes proposed in the draft standard include Extensible Authentication Protocol EAP . One proposed encryption algorithm is an Advanced Encryption Standard AES encryption algorithm.

Dynamic negotiation of authentication and encryption algorithms lets RSN evolve with the state of the art in security adding algorithms to address new threats and continuing to provide the security necessary to protect information that WiLANs carry.

The NIST developed a new encryption standard the Advanced Encryption Standard AES to keep government information secure. AES is intended to be a stronger more efficient successor to Triple Data Encryption Standard 3DES . More information on NIST AES can be found at the domain name www.nist.gov aes. 

DES is a popular symmetric key encryption method developed in 1975 and standardized by ANSI in 1981 as ANSI X.3.92 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. As is known in the art 3DES is the encrypt decrypt encrypt EDE mode of the DES cipher algorithm. 3DES is defined in the ANSI standard ANSI X9.52 1998 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. DES modes of operation are used in conjunction with the NIST Federal Information Processing Standard FIPS for data encryption FIPS 46 3 October 1999 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The NIST approved a FIPS for the AES FIPS 197. This standard specified Rijndael encryption as a FIPS approved symmetric encryption algorithm that may be used by U.S. Government organizations and others to protect sensitive information. The NIST FIPS 197 standard AES FIPS PUB 197 November 2001 is incorporated herein by reference.

The NIST approved a FIPS for U.S. Federal Government requirements for information technology products for sensitive but unclassified SBU communications. The NIST FIPS Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules FIPS PUB 140 2 May 2001 is incorporated herein by reference.

RSA is a public key encryption system which can be used both for encrypting messages and making digital signatures. The letters RSA stand for the names of the inventors Rivest Shamir and Adleman. For more information on RSA see U.S. Pat. No. 4 405 829 now expired incorporated herein by reference.

 Hashing is the transformation of a string of characters into a usually shorter fixed length value or key that represents the original string. Hashing is used to index and retrieve items in a database because it is faster to find the item using the shorter hashed key than to find it using the original value. It is also used in many encryption algorithms.

Secure Hash Algorithm SHA is used for computing a secure condensed representation of a data message or a data file. When a message of any length 

Message Digest 5 MD 5 takes as input a message of arbitrary length and produces as output a 128 bit message digest of the input. The MD5 algorithm is intended for digital signature applications where a large file must be compressed in a secure manner before being encrypted with a private secret key under a public key cryptosystem such as RSA. The IETF RFC 1321 entitled The MD5 Message Digest Algorithm is incorporated here by reference.

Providing a way to check the integrity of information transmitted over or stored in an unreliable medium such as a wireless network is a prime necessity in the world of open computing and communications. Mechanisms that provide such integrity check based on a secret key are called message authentication codes MAC . Typically message authentication codes are used between two parties that share a secret key in order to validate information transmitted between these parties.

Keyed Hashing for Message Authentication Codes HMAC is a mechanism for message authentication using cryptographic hash functions. HMAC is used with any iterative cryptographic hash function e.g. MD5 SHA 1 SHA 512 etc. in combination with a secret shared key. The cryptographic strength of HMAC depends on the properties of the underlying hash function. The IETF RFC 2101 entitled HMAC Keyed Hashing for Message Authentication is incorporated here by reference.

An Electronic Code Book ECB is a mode of operation for a block cipher with the characteristic that each possible block of plaintext has a defined corresponding cipher text value and vice versa. In other words the same plaintext value will always result in the same cipher text value. Electronic Code Book is used when a volume of plaintext is separated into several blocks of data each of which is then encrypted independently of other blocks. The Electronic Code Book has the ability to support a separate encryption key for each block type.

Diffie and Hellman DH describe several different group methods for two parties to agree upon a shared secret in such a way that the secret will be unavailable to eavesdroppers. This secret is then converted into various types of cryptographic keys. A large number of the variants of the DH method exist including ANSI X9.42. The IETF RFC 2631 entitled Diffie Hellman Key Agreement Method is incorporated here by reference.

The HyperText Transport Protocol HTTP Secure HTTPs is a standard for encrypted communications on the World Wide Web. HTTPs is actually just HTTP over a Secure Sockets Layer SSL . For more information on HTTP see IETF RFC 2616 incorporated herein by reference.

The SSL protocol is a protocol layer which may be placed between a reliable connection oriented network layer protocol e.g. TCP IP and the application protocol layer e.g. HTTP . SSL provides for secure communication between a source and destination by allowing mutual authentication the use of digital signatures for integrity and encryption for privacy.

The SSL protocol is designed to support a range of choices for specific security methods used for cryptography message digests and digital signatures. The security method are negotiated between the source and destination at the start of establishing a protocol session. The SSL 2.0 protocol specification by Kipp E. B. Hickman 1995 is incorporated herein by reference. More information on SSL is available at the domain name See netscape.com eng security SSL2.html. 

Transport Layer Security TLS provides communications privacy over the Internet. The protocol allows client server applications to communicate over a transport layer e.g. TCP in a way that is designed to prevent eavesdropping tampering or message forgery. For more information on TLS see IETF RFC 2246 incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the security functionality includes Cisco Compatible EXtensions CCX . CCX includes security specifications for makers of 802.11xx wireless LAN chips for ensuring compliance with Cisco s proprietary wireless security LAN protocols. As is known in the art Cisco Systems Inc. of San Jose Calif. is supplier of networking hardware and software including router and security products.

 Integrated Encryption Scheme IES is a hybrid encryption scheme which provides semantic security against an adversary who is allowed to use chosen plaintext and chosen ciphertext attacks. The security of the scheme is based on the Diffie Hellman problem. Two incarnations of the IES are standardized Discrete Logarithm Integrated Encryption Scheme DLIES and Elliptic Curve Integrated Encryption Scheme ECIES which is also known as the Elliptic Curve Augmented Encryption Scheme or simply the Elliptic Curve Encryption Scheme. For more information see SEC 1 Elliptic Curve Cryptography Version 2.0 May 21 2009 the contents of which are incorporated by reference.

 Homomorphic encryption is a form of encryption where a specific algebraic operation performed on the plaintext is equivalent to another possibly different algebraic operation performed on the ciphertext. Homomorphic encryption schemes are malleable by design. The homomorphic property of various cryptosystems is used with cloud computing by ensuring the confidentiality of processed data. The homomorphic part of a fully homomorphic encryption scheme can also be described in terms of category theory. If C is the category whose objects are integers i.e. finite streams of data and whose morphisms are computable functions then ideally a fully homomorphic encryption scheme elevates an encryption function to a functor from C to itself.

However the present invention is not limited to such security and encryption methods described herein and more fewer and or other types of security and encryption methods can be used to practice the invention. The security and encryption methods described herein can also be used in various combinations and or in different layers of the protocol stack with each other.

In one embodiment the cloud computing network includes a cloud communications network comprising plural different cloud component networks . Cloud computing is a model for enabling on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. public and private networks servers storage applications and services that are shared rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction.

This exemplary cloud computing model for electronic information retrieval promotes availability for shared resources and comprises 1 cloud computing essential characteristics 2 cloud computing service models and 3 cloud computing deployment models. However the present invention is not limited to this cloud computing model and other cloud computing models can also be used to practice the invention.

Exemplary cloud computing essential characteristics appear in Table 1. However the present invention is not limited to these essential characteristics and more fewer or other characteristics can also be used to practice the invention.

Exemplary cloud computing service models illustrated in appear in Table 2. However the present invention is not limited to these service models and more fewer or other service models can also be used to practice the invention.

Exemplary cloud computing deployment models appear in Table 3. However the present invention is not limited to these deployment models and more fewer or other deployment models can also be used to practice the invention.

Cloud software for electronic content retrieval takes full advantage of the cloud paradigm by being service oriented with a focus on statelessness low coupling modularity and semantic interoperability for electronic content retrieval. However cloud software services can include various states.

Cloud storage of desired electronic content on a cloud computing network includes agility scalability elasticity and multi tenancy. Although a storage foundation may be comprised of block storage or file storage such as that exists on conventional networks cloud storage is typically exposed to requesters of desired electronic content as cloud objects.

In one exemplary embodiment the cloud application offers cloud services for electronic content storage and retrieval. The application offers the cloud computing Infrastructure as a Service IaaS including a cloud software infrastructure service the cloud Platform as a Service PaaS including a cloud software platform service and or offers Specific cloud software services as a Service SaaS including a specific cloud software service for electronic content storage and retrieval. The IaaS PaaS and SaaS include one or more of cloud services comprising networking storage server network device virtualization operating system middleware run time data and or application services or plural combinations thereof on the cloud communications network .

The cloud storage object includes an envelope portion with a header portion and a body portion . However the present invention is not limited to such a cloud storage object and other cloud storage objects and other cloud storage objects with more fewer or other portions can also be used to practice the invention.

The envelope portion uses unique namespace Uniform Resource Identifiers URIs and or Uniform Resource Names URNs and or Uniform Resource Locators URLs unique across the cloud communications network to uniquely specify location and version information and encoding rules used by the cloud storage object across the whole cloud communications network . For more information see IETF RFC 3305 Uniform Resource Identifiers URIs URLs and Uniform Resource Names URNs the contents of which are incorporated by reference.

The envelope portion of the cloud storage object is followed by a header portion . The header portion includes extended information about the cloud storage objects such as authorization and or transaction information etc.

The body portion includes methods i.e. a sequence of instructions etc. for using embedded application specific data in data elements . The body portion typically includes only one portion of plural portions of application specific data and independent data so the cloud storage object can provide distributed redundant fault tolerant security and privacy features described herein.

Cloud storage objects have proven experimentally to be a highly scalable available and reliable layer of abstraction that also minimizes the limitations of common file systems. Cloud storage objects also provide low latency and low storage and transmission costs.

Cloud storage objects are comprised of many distributed resources but function as a single storage object are highly fault tolerant through redundancy and provide distribution of desired electronic content across public communication networks and one or more private networks community networks and hybrid networks of the cloud communications network . Cloud storage objects are also highly durable because of creation of copies of portions of desired electronic content across such networks of the cloud communications network . Cloud storage objects includes one or more portions of desired electronic content and can be stored on any of the networks of the cloud communications network . Cloud storage objects are transparent to a requester of desired electronic content and are managed by cloud applications .

In one embodiment cloud storage objects are configurable arbitrary objects with a size up to hundreds of terabytes each accompanied by with a few kilobytes of metadata. Cloud objects are organized into and identified by a unique identifier unique across the whole cloud communications network . However the present invention is not limited to the cloud storage objects described and more fewer and other types of cloud storage objects can be used to practice the invention.

Cloud storage objects present a single unified namespace or object space and manages desired electronic content by user or administrator defined policies storage and retrieval policies. Cloud storage objects includes Representational state transfer REST Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP and or Application Programming Interface API objects and or other types of cloud storage objects. However the present invention is not limited to the cloud storage objects described and more fewer and other types of cloud storage objects can be used to practice the invention.

REST is a protocol specification that characterizes and constrains macro interactions storage objects of the four components of a cloud communications network namely origin servers gateways proxies and clients without imposing limitations on the individual participants.

SOAP is a protocol specification for exchanging structured information in the implementation of cloud services with storage objects. SOAP has at least three major characteristics 1 Extensibility including security encryption routing etc. 2 Neutrality SOAP can be used over any transport protocol such as HTTP SMTP or even TCP etc. and 3 Independence SOAP allows for almost any programming model to be used etc. 

LDAP is a software protocol for enabling storage and retrieval of electronic content and other resources such as files and devices on the cloud communications network . LDAP is a lightweight version of Directory Access Protocol DAP which is part of X.500 a standard for directory services in a network. LDAP may be used with X.509 security and other security methods for secure storage and retrieval. X.509 is public key digital certificate standard developed as part of the X.500 directory specification. X.509 is used for secure management and distribution of digitally signed certificates across networks.

An API is a particular set of rules and specifications that software programs can follow to communicate with each other. It serves as an interface between different software programs and facilitates their interaction.

A barcode is an optical machine readable representation of data which shows data about the object to which it attaches. Originally barcodes represented data by varying the widths and spacings of parallel lines and may be referred to as linear or 1 dimensional 1D . Later they evolved into rectangles dots hexagons and other geometric patterns in 2 dimensions 2D . Although 2D systems use a variety of symbols they are generally referred to as barcodes as well. Barcodes originally were scanned by special optical scanners called barcode readers scanners and interpretive software are available on devices including desktop printers not illustrated and smart phones and tablet computers .

Table 4 illustrates exemplary linear barcodes the standards of all of which are incorporated by reference. However the present invention is not limited to the exemplary linear barcodes listed in Table 4 and more fewer and other linear barcodes can also be used to practice the invention.

Table 5 illustrates exemplary matrix 2D barcodes the standards of all of which are incorporated by reference. However the present invention is not limited to the exemplary matrix barcodes listed in Table 5 and more fewer and other matrix barcodes can also be used to practice the invention.

In one specific embodiment the cloud application interacts with a bar code reader application. However the present invention is not limited to a bar code reader application and other applications can also be used to practice the invention.

In one specific exemplary embodiment a QR bar code is used. However the present invention is not limited to QR codes and other types of bar codes can also be used to practice the invention

A QR Code is a specific matrix barcode or two dimensional code readable by dedicated QR barcode readers and camera phones. The code consists of black modules arranged in a square pattern on a white background. The information encoded can be text URL or other data. QR codes are defined in 18004 2006 2005 1 Sep. 2006 the contents of which are incorporated by reference.

Users with a camera equipped smart phone or tablet computer etc. with a the camera component a bar code reader application appropriate for the bar code processes the digital image of the QR Code can include the QR Code . The camera component is used to capture existing QR codes from print and electronic documents and other sources e.g. from other network devices etc. 

QR codes are also used to display text contact information connect to a wireless network open a web page in the phone s browser download music communicate a social event or coupon or initiate a communications event over the cloud communications network e.g. voice call data call etc. This act of linking from physical world objects is known as a hardlink or physical world hyperlinks. 

For example Google s smart phone Android operating system supports the use of QR codes by natively including the barcode scanner e.g. Zxing etc. on some models and the browser supports Uniform Resource Identifier URI redirection which allows QR Codes to send metadata to existing applications on the device. Nokia s Symbian operating system is also provided with a barcode scanner which is able to read QR codes while mbarcode is a QR code reader for the Maemo operating system. In the Apple iOS a QR code reader is not natively included but hundreds of free applications available with reader and metadata browser URI redirection capability. However the present invention is not limited to these network device operating systems and other bar code readers and device operating systems can also be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment a user may scan a number of QR bar codes from non electronic information such as magazines business cards billboards other non electronic advertising etc. A user may also scan a number of QR bar codes from electronic advertising such from web sites other target network devices from e mails text messages instant messages etc.

A field is an algebraic object with at least two operations addition and multiplication. However fields do not use ordinary math addition and multiplication. With field addition all the elements of the field must form a commutative group with identity denoted by zero and the inverse of a field element f denoted by f. For field multiplication all the elements of the field except zero must form another commutative group with identity denoted buy one and inverse off denoted by f. The element zero has no inverse under field multiplication. The distributive identity must also satisfy a b c a b a c for all field elements a b and c.

In one embodiment finite Galois fields are used. For any prime integer p and any integer n greater than or equal to one there is at one unique field with pelements in it denoted GF p . In the case n is equal to one the Galois field is just the integers mod p in which field addition and field multiplication are just the ordinary math versions followed by taking the remainder on division by p.

The modulo operation determines a remainder of a division of one number by another. Given two positive numbers a i.e. the dividend and n i.e. the divisor a modulo n i.e. a mod n is a remainder of a division of a by n.

In one embodiment p 2 and n 8 so GF 2 an 8 bit representation of numbers is used. This field allows decimal numbers in the range from zero to 255 since 2 256. Elements of GF p are represented as polynomials of degree strictly less than n over GF p . A polynomial is an expression of finite length constructed from variables and constants and non negative integer exponents e.g. x x x 1 etc. . GF 2 is used because 2is an even power of 2 and 8 is the number of bits in a byte a term used a common unit of storage in a computer readable medium. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and other values of p and n can be used to create Galois fields and to practice the invention e.g. GF 3 etc. 

When the p is the prime integer 2 elements of GF p are expressed as binary numbers with each term in a polynomial represented by one bit in the corresponding element s binary expression. This can be represented as a polynomial b x with binary coefficients b 0 1 as bx bx bx bx bx bx bx b0. For example the following are equivalent representations of the same value in a characteristic 2 finite Galois field Polynomial x x x 1 is equal to Binary 01010011. Since GF 2 there is no x so a zero is placed in the binary there is an x so a one is placed in the binary there is no x so a zero is placed in the binary etc.

The difficult part of a Galois field is finding the multiplicative inverse of an element that is given a non zero element a in Z finding a. This is the same as finding b such that a b p 1 wherein is the modulus operator.

Since multiplicative inverses of Galois fields are hard to find they are often are used in encryption methods e.g. versions of AES etc. . Galois fields are used in the present invention in part to make it difficult to determine locations of portions of electronic content or a whole portion is distributed to server network device address locations determined using Galois fields.

In at Step the determined plural address locations are securely stored in a cloud content location map with the first cloud application in the first non transitory computer readable medium on the cloud server network device. At Step the plural cloud storage objects are securely sent to the determined selected ones of the plural other different cloud servers on the cloud communications network. The plural cloud storage objects are distributed and located in plural different locations on the cloud communications network. None of the selected ones of plural other cloud server network devices can individually determine locations of all portions of the received electronic content on the cloud communications network thereby providing a first layer of security and privacy for the electronic content on the cloud communications network.

Method is illustrated with an exemplary embodiment. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

In such an exemplary embodiment in at Step electronic content is received on a first cloud application and stored in a first non transitory computer readable medium on a cloud server network device e.g. etc. with the one or more processors via a cloud communications network comprising one or more public communication networks one or more private networks one or more community networks and one or more hybrid networks .

At Step the received electronic content e.g. etc. is split with the first cloud application into plural portions e.g. etc. .

At Step the first cloud application saves the plural potions in plural cloud storage objects . In one embodiment one or more QR codes are added to the plural cloud storage objects to uniquely identify a whole portion or uniquely identify the plural portions of the desired electronic content. However the present invention is not limited to such an embodiment and other identifiers can be used to uniquely identify electronic content .

At Step plural address locations of selected ones of plural of other different cloud server network devices each with one or more processors are determined with a Galois field. An input to the Galois field produces an output including a address location of a desired cloud server on the cloud communications network. The address location can be located anywhere on the one or more public communication networks one or more private networks one or more community networks and one or more hybrid networks of the cloud communications network .

For example the Galois field produces the output by completing one or more field operations including field addition field multiplication and field modulus operations on the input to the Galois field as was described above. However the present invention is not limited to such an embodiment and other field operations can be used on the Galois field to practice the invention.

In one embodiment the Galois field is represented as a set of plural software instructions in the non transitory computer readable medium on the cloud server network device and is assessable via and used by the first cloud application .

In another embodiment the Galois field is implemented in hardware or firmware on the cloud server network device or a combination of software hardware and or firmware.

In one embodiment p 2 and n 8 so GF 2 . However the present invention is not limited to such an embodiment and other values can be used for p and n in GF p .

In one embodiment two exemplary polynomials are included in the Galois field GF 2 . The choice of polynomials have no effect on field addition operations on the Galois field. However the choice of polynomials is relevant for the field operation of multiplication and provides a modulus for field multiplication operations.

In one embodiment two exemplary polynomials include but are not limited to p x x x x 1 and p x x 1. The two polynomials are field multiplied together using input data for x. However the present invention is not limited to such an embodiment. more fewer and other polynomials can be used to practice the invention.

Since Galois fields are very complicated a simple example using the Galois Field GF 2 and the polynomial P x x x 1 is provided to illustrate the invention. The GF 2 and p x x x x 1 and p x x 1 are very complicated and include several hundred entries but are determined in a similar manner to the simple example illustrated in Table 6. .

The simple exemplary GF 2 GF 8 since two raised to the third power is eight. A result from the Galois field GF 2 is 1011 binary is equal to the number 11 decimal . Values in GF 2 are 3 bits each spanning the decimal number range zero through seven. Galois field multiplication takes place on 3 bit binary values with modulo two addition where the two and three are from 2 and the result is computed modulo P x so the result is 1011 binary which is equal to the number 11 decimal .

Table 6 illustrates exemplary Galois field multiplication and Galois field addition tables used for a very simple Galois Field GF 2 with the polynomial P x x x 1. The results are listed in decimal number format. Similar tables are used to Galois field multiply input values GF 2 for p x x x x 1 and p x x 1 to increase output speed for the Galois field operations. 

For example Table 6 with Galois Field GF 2 and P x x x 1 and be used to verify the Galois field multiplication of 5 4 wherein 5 decimal x4 decimal 101 binary x 100 binary 10100 101 binary mod 1011 binary 5 decimal mod 11 decimal 2 decimal . As Table 6 illustrates the element zero has no inverse and is not used under Galois field multiplication.

In this simple example Galois field addition takes places on 3 bit binary values using bitwise exclusive OR XOR operations. A bitwise XOR operation takes two bit patterns of equal length and performs a logical exclusive OR operation on each pair of corresponding bits. The result in each position is one if only the first bit is one or only the second bit is one but will be zero if both bits are zero or both bits are one. In the comparison of two bits if the two bits are different the XOR result is a one and the XOR result is a zero if they are the same.

Table 6 can be also used to verify the Galois field GF 2 addition of 5 4 101 XOR 100 001 1 decimal . Note however as was discussed above the choice of the polynomial P x plays no role in the Galois Field addition operation.

For additional security and privacy the values for p and n and the two or more polynomials are periodically changed in the Galois field. The corresponding instructions and tables etc. are replaced in the non transitory computer readable medium on the cloud server network device . In such an embodiment new tables of Galois Field output numbers are calculated and stored in the computer readable medium on the cloud server network device .

In one embodiment field multiplication in GF 2 includes multiplying data for the two polynomials modulo using an irreducible polynomial of degree eight e.g. p x x x x x 1 etc. . Such an irreducible polynomial provides an additional level of security for use of the Galois field. However the present invention is not limited to such an embodiment and other polynomials can be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment the input is to the Galois field is a sequence of binary digits i.e. ones and zeros obtained from two or more random numbers from a random number generator accessible by the first cloud application e.g. if the decimal number 176 is obtained from the random number generator then binary number 10110000 since 176 decimal is equal to 10110000 binary is input to the Galois field etc. . However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and other types of inputs can be used as inputs to the Galois field including pre determined sequences of numbers prime numbers digitized user encoded biometrics tables of selected numbers etc.

 Biometrics are patterns derived from physical features e.g. fingerprints iris patterns scanned from an eye facial scan patterns etc. or emissions e.g. voice patterns DNA samples hair samples blood samples etc. of a human body.

In one embodiment the biometric information is included in binary bit patterns and run through a encryption method e.g. AES DES MD5 etc. . Biometric encryption methods securely bind a digital key to a biometric or extract a key from the biometric. Neither the key nor the biometric can be retrieved from a stored biometric template. The key is re created only if a correct biometric sample is presented on verification. An output of biometric encryption is verification that either a key is correct or incorrect.

In one embodiment the input to the Galois field produces an output including a virtual cloud communication network addresses an Internet Protocol IP address and or a Medium Access Control MAC address and or a TCP and or a UDP and or other protocol port designation and or combinations thereof. However the present invention is not limited to such address location and other address locations can be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment the virtual cloud communication network addresses include virtual addresses of cloud server network devices located anywhere on the cloud communications network . However the present invention is not limited to such an embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention. In such an embodiment the virtual cloud communication network addresses include for example virtual designations for example as cloud server1 private network1 cloud server2 public network3 etc. e.g. Table 7 etc. However the present invention is not limited to such notation and other notation can be used to practice the invention.

Table 7 illustrates exemplary address locations for plural cloud server network devices on the plural networks on the cloud network based on the field multiplication values from the Galois Filed outputs of Table 6. Address locations are illustrated with exemplary virtual addresses IP addresses MAC data link addresses and UDP port addresses and combinations therefore for cloud server network devices for simplicity. However the present invention is not limited to such an embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

The address location column of Table 7 is periodically changed to provide additional security and privacy. Individual address locations from a list of address locations of cloud server network devices are selected using a random number generator. The output from the random number generator is used to add the individual address locations into a row and column in Table 7. However the present invention is not limited to such an embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment the output from the Galois field includes a number which is used to reference a location in an address location table e.g. Table 7 etc. . However the present invention is not limited to such an embodiment and other embodiments including or not including tables can be used to practice the invention.

In another embodiment another input used for the Galois field is physical location information of the target network device .

In one embodiment the physical location information includes Global Positioning System GPS information street address information two dimensional 2D geo space e.g. X Y e.g. building floor three dimensional 3D X Y Z e.g. building floor floor location e.g. room office desk etc. or other physical location information e.g. longitude latitude street address etc. . However the present invention is not limited to such physical location information and other physical location information can be used to practice the invention.

The Global Positioning System GPS is a space based global navigation satellite system GNSS that provides reliable location and time information in all weather and at all times and anywhere on or near the Earth. A GPS receiver calculates its position by precisely timing signals sent by GPS satellites. A GPS receiver uses the messages it receives to determine a transit time of each message and computes a distance to each GPS satellite. These distances along with the satellites locations are used with the possible aid of triangulation depending on which algorithm is used to compute a current physical position of the GPS receiver. This position is then displayed perhaps with a moving map display e.g. at a street level etc. and or latitude and longitude and or elevation and or speed and or acceleration information may also be included. Many GPS units also show derived information such as travel direction and speed calculated from position changes. The GPS coordinates include standard GPS GPS map Digital GPS DGPS and or other types of GPS information.

In such embodiments the output from the Galois field includes address locations of selected ones of the plural of other cloud server network devices that are physically closest to the target network device requesting the desired electronic content. In such an embodiment the desired electronic content is delivered faster to the target network device the servers used to store portions of the desired electronic content are physically close to the target network device . One reason faster delivery can occur is that a wireless and or wired communication is faster when a communications is stronger. Stronger signals occur when a network device is closer to a signal source. However the present invention is not limited to such an embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

The various embodiments have been described with Galois fields using decimal numbers. However decimal number were only used to make it easier for person skilled in the art to understand the invention. In an actual implementation of the invention on a cloud computing network one or more processors on the cloud target network device executes the cloud application and the methods described herein as a series of instructions in a non transitory computer readable medium. Therefore the Galois filed would directly use binary representations for all inputs and outputs of the Galois field and conversions to and from decimal numbers would not be necessary as the inputs and outputs need not be in human readable form for the one or more processors.

Galois fields are also used because operations used on the Galois fields are native to network device processors and internal hardware such as shift left for multiplication shift right for division logical AND OR XOR etc. Galois fields can be implemented in hardware as a series of

Returning to at Step the determined plural address locations are securely stored in a cloud content location map with the first cloud application in the first non transitory computer readable medium on the cloud server network device . In another embodiment the cloud content location map is stored in a secure database associated with the cloud server network device . However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and types of storage can be used to store the cloud content location map.

In one embodiment the cloud content location map is encrypted using a Discrete Logarithm Integrated Encryption Scheme DLIES a Elliptic Curve Integrated Encryption Scheme ECIES a user generated biometric or a Homomorphic encryption method. These encryption methods are used because they can be used efficiently and quickly with Galois fields. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and other encryption methods described herein can be used to encrypt the cloud content location map.

At Step the plural cloud storage objects are securely sent to the determined selected ones of the plural other different cloud servers on the cloud communications network . The plural cloud storage objects are distributed and located in a plural different locations on the cloud communications network . None of the selected ones of plural other cloud server network devices can individually determine locations of all portions of the received electronic content on the cloud communications network thereby providing a first layer of security and privacy for the electronic content on the cloud communications network .

In one embodiment the plural cloud storage objects are securely sent using a Wireless Encryption Protocol WEP Wireless Wi Fi Protected Access WPA Robust Security Network RSN Advanced Encryption Standard AES Data Encryption Standard DES Triple Data Encryption Standard 3DES Secure Hash Algorithm SHA Message Digest 5 MD 5 Electronic Code Book ECB Diffie and Hellman DH HyperText Transport Protocol Secure HTTPs Secure Sockets Layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS security method Discrete Logarithm Integrated Encryption Scheme DLIES a Elliptic Curve Integrated Encryption Scheme ECIES biometric or a Homomorphic encryption method. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and other encryption methods described herein can be used to practice the invention.

In another embodiment Method is used without splitting the received electronic content into plural portions. In such an embodiment a whole portion of the received electronic content is copied by the first cloud application into a single cloud storage object . The Galois filed is used to determine an address location of a single cloud server network device on the networks that comprise the cloud network . The single cloud storage object is sent to the address location of that cloud network server device. When the desired electronic content is requested the whole portion of the electronic content is returned and removed from the cloud storage object and sent to the target network device .

Method is illustrated with an exemplary embodiment. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

In such an exemplary embodiment in at Step a first request message is received in real time on the first cloud application stored in the first non transitory computer readable medium on the cloud server network device with the one or more processors from a second cloud application stored in a second non transitory computer readable medium on a target network device e.g. etc. with one or more processors via the cloud communications network .

The first request message includes a request for desired cloud electronic content stored in the plural cloud storage objects stored on the selected ones of the plural other different cloud server network devices located on one or more of the networks comprising the cloud communications network . The plural different cloud storage objects function as a single transparent secure storage object for electronic content on the cloud communications network .

In this embodiment real time includes a time period of a few seconds e.g. one to five seconds etc. or less in elapsed time. That is from a first time a request message is received until the desired electronic content is delivered a few seconds of actual time elapse. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and other time periods for real time can be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment the first request message includes a QR bar code . In another embodiment the first request message is encrypted with a pre determined encryption method including those described herein and others and encoded into the QR bar code . However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

In such an embodiment any electronic content stored is given a unique QR bar code . When the desired electronic content is desired the QR code is used to request and retrieve the desired electronic content.

In another embodiment the first request message includes login information for one or more television sites social networking sites music distribution sites. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

At Step the cloud content location map is retrieved securely on the first cloud application on the cloud server network device . The cloud content location map includes location addresses of the selected ones of the plural other different cloud server network devices on the cloud communications network .

In at Step first cloud application on the cloud server network device sends plural second request messages for the desired cloud electronic content to the selected ones of the plural other different cloud server network devices identified in the retrieved cloud content location map and located on the one or more public communication networks the one or more private networks community networks and hybrid networks comprising the cloud communications network .

At Step the cloud computing application on the server network device receives plural response messages including one or more individual portions of the desired cloud electronic content in one or more of cloud storage objects from the selected ones of the plural other different cloud server network devices on the public communication networks the one or more private networks community networks and hybrid networks comprising the cloud communications network .

At Step the first cloud application on the first server network device combines the one or more individual components of the desired cloud electronic content from the one or more cloud storage objects from the received plural response messages into a final desired electronic cloud content component .

In at Step the first cloud application on the cloud server network device securely sends in real time the final desired cloud electronic content component as the desired cloud electronic content to the target network device via the cloud communications network .

The second cloud application on the target network device cannot determine the desired cloud electronic content was stored as plural portions in plural cloud storage objects and cannot determine which of plural selected ones of the other different cloud server network devices on the one or more public private community or hybrid networks on the cloud communications network may have stored portions of the final desired cloud electronic content thereby providing a second layer of security and privacy for the desired cloud electronic content on the cloud communications network .

In another embodiment as was described above a whole portion of the desired cloud electronic content can be requested by the target network device and returned to the target network device from the cloud server network device after the desired cloud electronic is retrieved as a whole portion stored in from another cloud server network device on one or the networks of the cloud network .

The desired cloud electronic content can be requested from the cloud communications network and displayed by the second cloud application on the target network device anywhere the target network device is physically located near and or in communications with any server network devices on any of the networks on the cloud communications network .

Method is illustrated with an exemplary embodiment. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and other embodiments can be used to practice the invention.

At Step the first cloud application on the cloud server network device sends plural third request messages to the selected ones of the plural of other different cloud server network devices identified in the retrieved cloud content location map to de activate the plural portions of desired cloud electronic content stored in the plural cloud storage objects stored on the selected ones of the plural other different cloud server network devices .

De activating the plural portions of the desired cloud electronic content stored in the plural cloud storage objects includes encrypting the plural cloud storage objects or deleting the plural cloud storage objects .

If the plural cloud storage objects are encrypted they can be decrypted at a later time for retrieval. If the plural storage objects are deleted then they cannot be retrieved from the same server network devices without re storing the plural cloud storage objects . However the present invention is not limited to such embodiments other can be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment if the plural cloud storage objects are encrypted e.g. with a public or private encryption key for AES DES RSN DLIES ECIES etc. when subsequent requests for the desired electronic content are made by the target network device one or more of the encrypted plural cloud storage objects on cloud server network devices that are closest to a physical location of the target network device are decrypted e.g. with a corresponding public or private decryption key etc. and sent to the cloud network server for processing.

This increases the efficiency and speed of electronic content delivery on the cloud communications network . In such an embodiment the plural cloud storage objects are duplicated and distributed in plural different locations on the cloud communications network thereby providing an additional layer of redundancy and fault tolerance on the cloud network .

 Fault tolerance is a system design feature that enables a system to continue operation possibly at a reduced level also known as graceful degradation rather than failing completely when some part of the system fails or goes off line. The cloud communications network defined herein is a fault tolerant network. Redundancy is a duplication of critical components or functions or data storage of a system with the intention of increasing reliability of the system.

For example if a first cloud network server including a first cloud storage object with a first portion of desired electronic content failed or was taken off line a second cloud network server including an encrypted copy of the first cloud storage object and the same first portion of the desired electronic content could be decrypted and sent to the cloud server network device for processing.

At Step the first cloud application determines new plural address locations of new selected ones of plural other different cloud server network devices each with one or more processors with the Galois field.

In one embodiment the input to the Galois field includes physical location information of the target network device and the output of the Galois field includes new plural address locations of new selected ones of the plural other different cloud server network devices which are the closest to a current physical location of the target network device . However the present invention is not limited to such embodiments other can be used to practice the invention.

At Step the first cloud application securely stores the determined new plural address locations in the cloud content location map with the first cloud application in the first non transitory computer readable medium on the cloud server network device .

At Step the first cloud application securely sends the retrieved plural cloud storage objects to the new determined selected ones of the plural other different cloud servers on the cloud communications network with the determined plural address locations. The plural cloud storage objects are re distributed and located in new plural different locations on one or more public private community or hybrid networks on the cloud communications network .

In one embodiment a request for stored electronic content triggers the de activation of the stored electronic content.

In another embodiment the first cloud application automatically periodically retrieves the cloud content storage map and retrieves plural cloud storage objects for stored electronic content. Method is then executed to periodically de activate stored electronic content and re distribute it and re store to other networks on the cloud communications network . This automatic execution helps make the cloud network more fault tolerant and provides redundancy of stored electronic content.

In another embodiment as was described above for storing a whole portion the cloud storage object including the whole portion of the desired cloud electronic content can be de activated with encryption. The cloud storage object including the whole portion of the desired electronic content is then sent to a new cloud server network device for storage in a new different location one of the networks on the cloud network .

The methods and systems described herein provide for electronic content storage and retrieval on cloud computing networks. The electronic content is divided into plural portions and stored in plural cloud storage objects. Storage locations for the plural cloud storage objects are selected using a Galois field and the plural cloud storage objects are distributed to various locations across the cloud network. When the electronic content is requested the plural portions are retrieved and transparently combined back into the original electronic content. No server network devices storing the plural cloud storage objects can individually determine locations of all portions of the electronic content on the cloud communications network thereby providing a first layer of security and privacy for the electronic content on the cloud communications network. No target network devices requesting the electronic content can determine where the electronic content is stored thereby providing a second layer of security and privacy for the electronic content on the cloud communications network.

It should be understood that the architecture programs processes methods and It should be understood that the architecture programs processes methods and systems described herein are not related or limited to any particular type of computer or network system hardware or software unless indicated otherwise. Various types of general purpose or specialized computer systems may be used with or perform operations in accordance with the teachings described herein.

In view of the wide variety of embodiments to which the principles of the present invention can be applied it should be understood that the illustrated embodiments are exemplary only and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the present invention. For example the steps of the flow diagrams may be taken in sequences other than those described and more or fewer elements may be used in the block diagrams.

While various elements of the preferred embodiments have been described as being implemented in software in other embodiments hardware or firmware implementations may alternatively be used and vice versa.

The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. In addition use of the term means in any claim is intended to invoke 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6 and any claim without the word means is not so intended.

Therefore all embodiments that come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention.

