---

title: Tobacco inbred plants ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS
abstract: The present invention provides tobacco inbred plants ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS. The present invention also provides parts of such plants and products made from those parts. The present invention also includes progeny of the provided plants including hybrids.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09370160&OS=09370160&RS=09370160
owner: Altria Client Services LLC
number: 09370160
owner_city: Richmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120227
---
This application is a continuation in part of prior application Ser. No. 11 611 782 filed Dec. 15 2006 pending . This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 447 487 filed Feb. 28 2011 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 507 732 filed Jul. 14 2011 each of which provisional applications is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety including its respective sequence listing.

This application contains a sequence listing which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. An electronic equivalent paper copy computer readable form of the sequence listing is submitted herewith electronically via EFS Web and contains the file named P33794US02 seqlist.txt which is 16 384 bytes in size measured in Windows XP which was created on Feb. 23 2012 and which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention provides tobacco inbred plants ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS. The present invention also provides parts of such plants and products made from those parts. The present invention also includes progeny of the provided plants including hybrids.

Tobacco L. is an important commercial crop in the United States as well as in other countries. In tobacco plants N demethylation of nicotine results in nornicotine a secondary alkaloid known to be a precursor for formation of N Nitrosonornicotine NNN in cured leaves. NNN is an undesired component of cured leaves.

The predominant alkaloid found in commercial tobacco varieties is nicotine typically accounting for 90 95 of the total alkaloid pool. The remaining alkaloid fraction is comprised primarily of three additional pyridine alkaloids nornicotine anabasine and anatabine. Nornicotine is generated directly from nicotine through the activity of the enzyme nicotine N demethylase. Nornicotine usually represents less than 5 of the total pyridine alkaloid pool but through a process termed conversion tobacco plants that initially produce very low amounts of nornicotine give rise to progeny that metabolically convert a large percentage of leaf nicotine to nornicotine. In tobacco plants that have genetically converted termed converters the great majority of nornicotine production occurs during the senescence and curing of the mature leaf Wernsman and Matzinger 1968 12 226 228 . Burley tobaccos are particularly prone to genetic conversion with rates as high as 20 per generation observed in some cultivars.

During the curing and processing of the tobacco leaf a portion of the nornicotine is metabolized to the compound NNN a tobacco specific nitrosamine TSNA that has been asserted to be carcinogenic in laboratory animals Hecht and Hoffmann 1990 8 273 294 Hoffmann et al. 1994 41 1 52 Hecht 1998 11 559 603 . In flue cured tobaccos TSNAs are found to be predominantly formed through the reaction of alkaloids with the minute amounts of nitrogen oxides present in combustion gases formed by the direct fired heating systems found in traditional curing barns Peele and Gentry 1999 Formation of Tobacco specific Nitrosamines in Flue cured Tobacco CORESTA Meeting Agro Phyto Groups Suzhou China . Retrofitting these curing barns with heat exchangers virtually eliminated the mixing of combustion gases with the curing air and dramatically reduced the formation of TSNAs in tobaccos cured in this manner Boyette and Hamm 2001 27 17 22. . In contrast in the air cured Burley tobaccos TSNA formation proceeds primarily through reaction of tobacco alkaloids with nitrite a process catalyzed by leaf borne microbes Bush et al. 2001 27 23 46 . Thus far attempts to reduce TSNAs through modification of curing conditions while maintaining acceptable quality standards have not proven to be successful for the air cured tobaccos.

In an aspect the present invention includes a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 on behalf of Altria Client Services Inc. on Feb. 28 2011.

In an aspect the present invention includes a tobacco plant or a part thereof produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716.

In an aspect the present invention includes a harvested leaf of a tobacco plant or part thereof produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716.

In an aspect the present invention includes a harvested leaf of a tobacco plant or part thereof produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 wherein said leaf has a reduced amount of nornicotine and or N nitrosonornicotine NNN and or more stably low nicotine conversion as compared to a leaf from TN 90 or most other commercial burley tobacco cultivars grown under similar conditions.

In an aspect the present invention includes a harvested leaf of a tobacco plant produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 wherein said leaf has a reduced amount of nornicotine and or N nitrosonornicotine NNN and or more stably low nicotine conversion as compared to a leaf from TN 90 or most other commercial burley tobacco cultivars grown under similar conditions wherein the reduced amount of nornicotine and or N nitrosonornicotine NNN is reduced in a smoke stream produced from said leaf as compared to a leaf from TN 90 or most other commercial burley tobacco cultivars grown under similar conditions.

In an aspect the present invention includes a tobacco product prepared from the tobacco plant or part thereof produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No PTA 11716 wherein said product is selected from the group consisting of pipe tobacco cigar tobacco cigarette tobacco chewing tobacco leaf tobacco shredded tobacco and cut tobacco.

In an aspect the present invention includes a tobacco product prepared from the tobacco plant or part thereof produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 wherein said product is selected from the group consisting of pipe tobacco cigar tobacco cigarette tobacco chewing tobacco leaf tobacco shredded tobacco and cut tobacco and wherein said product is further selected from the group consisting of a cigarillo a non ventilated recess filter cigarette a vented recess filter cigarette a cigar snuff and chewing tobacco.

In an aspect the present invention includes a tobacco product prepared from the tobacco plant or part thereof produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 wherein said product is selected from the group consisting of pipe tobacco cigar tobacco cigarette tobacco chewing tobacco leaf tobacco shredded tobacco and cut tobacco and wherein said product is further selected from the group consisting of a cigarillo a non ventilated recess filter cigarette a vented recess filter cigarette a cigar snuff and chewing tobacco wherein said product has a reduced amount of nornicotine and or N nitrosonornicotine NNN and or more stably low nicotine conversion as compared to a product prepared from TN 90 or most other commercial burley tobacco cultivars grown and processed under similar conditions.

In an aspect the present invention includes a part of the plant produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 where the plant part is selected from the group consisting of leaf pollen ovule embryo cotyledon hypocotyl meristematic cell protoplast root root tip pistil anther flower shoot stem pod and petiole.

In an aspect the present invention includes a tissue culture produced from a protoplast or cell from the plant produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 wherein said cell or protoplast of the tissue culture is produced from a plant part selected from the group consisting of a leaf pollen embryo cotyledon hypocotyl meristematic cell root root tip pistil anther flower shoot stem pod and petiole.

In an aspect the present invention includes a tobacco plant regenerated from a tissue culture produced from a protoplast or cell from the plant produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 wherein said cell or protoplast of the tissue culture is produced from a plant part selected from the group consisting of a leaf pollen embryo cotyledon hypocotyl meristematic cell root root tip pistil anther flower shoot stem pod and petiole wherein the plant has essentially all of the morphological and physiological characteristics of cultivar ALBEX1F grown under similar conditions.

In another aspect the present invention includes a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717 on behalf of Altria Client Services Inc. on Feb. 28 2011.

In an aspect the present invention provides a tobacco plant or a part thereof produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717.

In an aspect the present invention provides a harvested leaf of a tobacco plant or part thereof produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717.

In an aspect the present invention provides a harvested leaf of a tobacco plant or part thereof produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717 wherein said leaf has a reduced amount of nornicotine and or N nitrosonornicotine NNN and or more stably low nicotine conversion as compared to a leaf from TN 90 or most other commercial burley tobacco cultivars grown under similar conditions.

In an aspect the present invention provides a harvested leaf of a tobacco plant or part thereof produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717 wherein said leaf has a reduced amount of nornicotine and or N nitrosonornicotine NNN and wherein said reduced amount of nornicotine and or N nitrosonornicotine NNN is reduced in a smoke stream produced from said leaf as compared to a leaf from TN 90 or most other commercial burley tobacco cultivars grown under similar conditions.

In an aspect the present invention provides a tobacco product prepared from the tobacco plant or part thereof produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717 wherein said product is selected from the group consisting of pipe tobacco cigar tobacco cigarette tobacco chewing tobacco leaf tobacco shredded tobacco and cut tobacco.

In an aspect the present invention provides a tobacco product prepared from the tobacco plant or part thereof produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717 wherein said product is selected from the group consisting of pipe tobacco cigar tobacco cigarette tobacco chewing tobacco leaf tobacco shredded tobacco and cut tobacco wherein said product is selected from the group consisting of a cigarillo a non ventilated recess filter cigarette a vented recess filter cigarette a cigar snuff and chewing tobacco.

In an aspect the present invention provides a product prepared from the tobacco plant or part thereof produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717 wherein said product is selected from the group consisting of pipe tobacco cigar tobacco cigarette tobacco chewing tobacco leaf tobacco shredded tobacco and cut tobacco wherein said product is selected from the group consisting of a cigarillo a non ventilated recess filter cigarette a vented recess filter cigarette a cigar snuff and chewing tobacco wherein said product has a reduced amount of nornicotine and or N nitrosonornicotine NNN and or more stably low nicotine conversion as compared to a product prepared from TN 90 or most other commercial burley tobacco cultivars grown under similar conditions.

In an aspect the present invention provides a part of a plant produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717 where the part of the plant is selected from the group consisting of leaf pollen ovule embryo cotyledon hypocotyl meristematic cell protoplast root root tip pistil anther flower shoot stem pod and petiole.

In an aspect the present invention provides a tissue culture produced from a protoplast or cell from the plant produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717 where said cell or protoplast of the tissue culture is produced from a plant part selected from the group consisting of a leaf pollen embryo cotyledon hypocotyl meristematic cell root root tip pistil anther flower shoot stem pod and petiole.

In an aspect the present invention provides a tobacco plant regenerated from a tissue culture produced from a protoplast or cell from the plant produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717 where said cell or protoplast of the tissue culture is produced from a plant part selected from the group consisting of a leaf pollen embryo cotyledon hypocotyl meristematic cell root root tip pistil anther flower shoot stem pod and petiole wherein the plant has essentially all of the morphological and physiological characteristics of cultivar ALBEX1MS grown under similar conditions.

In an aspect the present invention includes an Fprogeny plant of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716.

The Fprogeny plant of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 wherein said Fplant is male sterile MS .

In an aspect the present invention includes an Fprogeny plant of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717.

In an aspect the present invention provides a method for producing a tobacco seed comprising crossing two tobacco plants and harvesting the resultant tobacco seed wherein at least one tobacco plant is a tobacco plant of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716.

In an aspect the present invention provides a method for producing a tobacco seed comprising crossing two tobacco plants and harvesting the resultant tobacco seed wherein at least one tobacco plant is a tobacco plant of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 wherein the ALBEX1F plant is the female parent.

In an aspect the present invention provides a method for producing a tobacco seed comprising crossing two tobacco plants and harvesting the resultant tobacco seed wherein at least one tobacco plant is a tobacco plant of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 wherein the other tobacco plant is male sterile MS .

In an aspect the present invention provides an Fprogeny seed produced by a method of crossing two tobacco plants and harvesting the resultant tobacco seed wherein at least one tobacco plant is a tobacco plant of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 wherein the other tobacco plant is male sterile MS .

In an aspect the present invention provides a container of Fprogeny seeds produced by a method of crossing two tobacco plants and harvesting the resultant tobacco seed wherein at least one tobacco plant is a tobacco plant of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 wherein the other tobacco plant is male sterile MS .

In an aspect the present invention provides an Fprogeny plant produced by growing a seed produced by a method of crossing two tobacco plants and harvesting the resultant tobacco seed wherein at least one tobacco plant is a tobacco plant of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 wherein the other tobacco plant is male sterile MS .

In an aspect the present invention provides a harvested leaf of a tobacco plant or part thereof of an Fprogeny plant produced by growing a seed produced by a method of crossing two tobacco plants and harvesting the resultant tobacco seed wherein at least one tobacco plant is a tobacco plant of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 wherein the other tobacco plant is male sterile MS .

In an aspect the present invention provides a harvested leaf of an Fprogeny plant produced by growing a seed produced by a method of crossing two tobacco plants and harvesting the resultant tobacco seed wherein at least one tobacco plant is a tobacco plant of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 wherein the other tobacco plant is male sterile MS wherein said leaf has a reduced amount of nornicotine and or N nitrosonornicotine NNN and or more stably low nicotine conversion as compared to a leaf from TN 90 or most other commercial burley tobacco cultivars grown under similar conditions.

In an aspect the present invention provides a harvested leaf of an Fprogeny plant produced by growing a seed produced by a method of crossing two tobacco plants and harvesting the resultant tobacco seed wherein at least one tobacco plant is a tobacco plant of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 wherein the other tobacco plant is male sterile MS wherein said leaf has a reduced amount of nornicotine and or N nitrosonornicotine NNN and or more stably low nicotine conversion as compared to a leaf from TN 90 or most other commercial burley tobacco cultivars grown under similar conditions wherein said reduced amount of nornicotine and or N nitrosonornicotine NNN is reduced in a smoke stream produced from said leaf as compared to a leaf from TN 90 or most other commercial burley tobacco cultivars grown under similar conditions.

In an aspect the present invention provides a tobacco product prepared from an Fprogeny plant produced by growing a seed produced by a method of crossing two tobacco plants and harvesting the resultant tobacco seed wherein at least one tobacco plant is a tobacco plant of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 wherein the other tobacco plant is male sterile MS wherein said product is selected from the group consisting of pipe tobacco cigar tobacco cigarette tobacco chewing tobacco leaf tobacco shredded tobacco and cut tobacco.

In an aspect the present invention provides a tobacco product prepared from an Fprogeny plant produced by growing a seed produced by a method of crossing two tobacco plants and harvesting the resultant tobacco seed wherein at least one tobacco plant is a tobacco plant of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 wherein the other tobacco plant is male sterile MS wherein said product is selected from the group consisting of pipe tobacco cigar tobacco cigarette tobacco chewing tobacco leaf tobacco shredded tobacco and cut tobacco and wherein said product is further selected from the group consisting of a cigarillo a non ventilated recess filter cigarette a vented recess filter cigarette a cigar snuff and chewing tobacco.

In an aspect the present invention provides a tobacco product prepared from an Fprogeny plant produced by growing a seed produced by a method of crossing two tobacco plants and harvesting the resultant tobacco seed wherein at least one tobacco plant is a tobacco plant of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 wherein the other tobacco plant is male sterile MS wherein said product is selected from the group consisting of pipe tobacco cigar tobacco cigarette tobacco chewing tobacco leaf tobacco shredded tobacco and cut tobacco and wherein said product is further selected from the group consisting of a cigarillo a non ventilated recess filter cigarette a vented recess filter cigarette a cigar snuff and chewing tobacco wherein said product has a reduced amount of nornicotine and or N nitrosonornicotine NNN and or more stably low nicotine conversion as compared to a product prepared from TN 90 or most other commercial burley tobacco cultivars grown under similar conditions.

In an aspect the present invention provides a method for producing a tobacco seed comprising crossing two tobacco plants and harvesting the resultant tobacco seed wherein at least one tobacco plant is a tobacco plant of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 wherein the other tobacco plant is male sterile MS wherein said MS plant is a plant of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of said cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717.

In an aspect the present invention includes a method of vegetatively propagating a plant of a tobacco cultivar comprising the steps of a collecting tissue capable of being propagated from a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 and ALBEX1MS b cultivating the tissue to obtain a proliferated shoot and c rooting the proliferated shoots to obtain a rooted plantlet.

In an aspect the present invention includes a method of vegetatively propagating a plant of a tobacco cultivar comprising the steps of a culturing tissue capable of being propagated from a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 and ALBEX1MS to obtain a proliferated shoot and b rooting the proliferated shoots to obtain a rooted plantlet where the method further comprises growing a plant from said rooted plantlet

In an aspect the present invention includes a method of introducing a desired trait into a tobacco cultivar comprising a crossing a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 and ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717 with a second tobacco plant that comprises a desired trait to produce an Fprogeny seed b growing the Fprogeny seed and selecting an Fprogeny plant that comprises the desired trait c crossing the selected Fprogeny plant with a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS to produce a backcross Fprogeny seed d growing the Fprogeny seed and selecting a backcross Fprogeny plant comprising the desired trait and e repeating steps c and d three or more times in succession to produce selected fourth or higher backcross progeny that comprise the desired trait and essentially all of the physiological and morphological characteristics of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS.

In an aspect the present invention provides a method of introducing a desired trait into a tobacco cultivar comprising a crossing a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 and ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717 with a second tobacco plant that comprises a desired trait to produce an Fprogeny seed b growing the Fprogeny seed and selecting an Fprogeny plant that comprises the desired trait c crossing the selected Fprogeny plant with a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS to produce a backcross Fprogeny seed d growing the Fprogeny seed and selecting a backcross Fprogeny plant comprising the desired trait and e repeating steps c and d three or more times in succession to produce selected fourth or higher backcross progeny that comprise the desired trait and essentially all of the physiological and morphological characteristics of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS wherein said trait is male sterility MS .

In an aspect the present invention provides a method of introducing a desired trait into a tobacco cultivar comprising a crossing a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 and ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717 with a second tobacco plant that comprises a desired trait to produce an Fprogeny seed b growing the Fprogeny seed and selecting an Fprogeny plant that comprises the desired trait c crossing the selected Fprogeny plant with a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS to produce a backcross Fprogeny seed d growing the Fprogeny seed and selecting a backcross Fprogeny plant comprising the desired trait and e repeating steps c and d three or more times in succession to produce selected fourth or higher backcross progeny that comprise the desired trait and essentially all of the physiological and morphological characteristics of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS wherein said trait is male sterility MS and further where said MS trait is obtained from the cytoplasm of

In an aspect the present invention provides a method of introducing a desired trait into a tobacco cultivar comprising a crossing a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 and ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717 with a second tobacco plant that comprises a desired trait to produce an Fprogeny seed b growing the Fprogeny seed and selecting an Fprogeny plant that comprises the desired trait c crossing the selected Fprogeny plant with a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS to produce a backcross Fprogeny seed d growing the Fprogeny seed and selecting a backcross Fprogeny plant comprising the desired trait and e repeating steps c and d three or more times in succession to produce selected fourth or higher backcross progeny that comprise the desired trait and essentially all of the physiological and morphological characteristics of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS wherein said trait is male sterility MS where said MS trait is obtained from the cytoplasm of and further wherein said second tobacco plant is MS TN 90.

In an aspect the present invention provides a tobacco plant produced by a method of introducing a desired trait into a tobacco cultivar comprising a crossing a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 and ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717 with a second tobacco plant that comprises a desired trait to produce an Fprogeny seed b growing the Fprogeny seed and selecting an Fprogeny plant that comprises the desired trait c crossing the selected Fprogeny plant with a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS to produce a backcross Fprogeny seed d growing the Fprogeny seed and selecting a backcross Fprogeny plant comprising the desired trait and e repeating steps c and d three or more times in succession to produce selected fourth or higher backcross progeny that comprise the desired trait and essentially all of the physiological and morphological characteristics of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS wherein said trait is male sterility MS .

In another aspect the present invention includes a method of introducing a desired trait into a tobacco cultivar comprising a crossing a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 and ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717 with a plant of another tobacco cultivar that comprises a desired trait to produce a progeny plant where the desired trait is selected from the group consisting of herbicide resistance pest resistance disease resistance high yield high grade index curability curing quality mechanical harvestability holding ability leaf quality height plant maturation early maturing early to medium maturing medium maturing medium to late maturing late maturing small stalk medium stalk large stalk leaf number per plant 5 10 leaves per plant 11 15 leaves per plant 16 21 leaves per plant and any combination thereof to produce an Fprogeny seed b growing the Fprogeny seed into an Fprogeny plant and selecting the Fprogeny plant having the desired trait c crossing the selected Fprogeny plant with a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS to produce a backcross progeny plant seed d growing the backcross progeny plant seed into a backcross progeny plant and selecting the backcross progeny plant comprising the desired trait and e repeating steps c and d one or more times in succession to produce a selected fourth or higher backcross progeny plant that comprises the desired trait and essentially all of the physiological and morphological characteristics of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS grown under similar conditions.

In an aspect the present invention includes a tobacco plant produced by a method of introducing a desired trait into a tobacco cultivar comprising a crossing a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 and ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717 with a plant of another tobacco cultivar that comprises a desired trait to produce a progeny plant where the desired trait is selected from the group consisting of herbicide resistance pest resistance disease resistance high yield high grade index curability curing quality mechanical harvestability holding ability leaf quality height plant maturation early maturing early to medium maturing medium maturing medium to late maturing late maturing small stalk medium stalk large stalk leaf number per plant 5 10 leaves per plant 11 15 leaves per plant 16 21 leaves per plant and any combination thereof to produce an Fprogeny seed b growing the Fprogeny seed into an Fprogeny plant and selecting the Fprogeny plant having the desired trait c crossing the selected Fprogeny plant with a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS to produce a backcross progeny plant seed d growing the backcross progeny plant seed into a backcross progeny plant and selecting the backcross progeny plant comprising the desired trait and e repeating steps c and d one or more times in succession to produce a selected fourth or higher backcross progeny plant that comprises the desired trait and essentially all of the physiological and morphological characteristics of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS grown under similar conditions wherein the plant has said desired trait.

In an aspect the present invention includes a tobacco plant produced by a method of introducing a desired trait into a tobacco cultivar comprising a crossing a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 and ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717 with a plant of another tobacco cultivar that comprises a desired trait to produce a progeny plant where the desired trait is selected from the group consisting of herbicide resistance pest resistance disease resistance high yield high grade index curability curing quality mechanical harvestability holding ability leaf quality height plant maturation early maturing early to medium maturing medium maturing medium to late maturing late maturing small stalk medium stalk large stalk leaf number per plant 5 10 leaves per plant 11 15 leaves per plant 16 21 leaves per plant and any combination thereof to produce an Fprogeny seed b growing the Fprogeny seed into an Fprogeny plant and selecting the Fprogeny plant having the desired trait c crossing the selected Fprogeny plant with a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS to produce a backcross progeny plant seed d growing the backcross progeny plant seed into a backcross progeny plant and selecting the backcross progeny plant comprising the desired trait and e repeating steps c and d one or more times in succession to produce a selected fourth or higher backcross progeny plant that comprises the desired trait and essentially all of the physiological and morphological characteristics of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS grown under similar conditions wherein the plant has the desired trait and wherein the desired trait is herbicide resistance.

In another aspect the present invention includes a method for producing a tobacco plant having decreased nicotine conversion comprising identifying a first tobacco plant having the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 1 crossing the first tobacco plant with a second tobacco plant and collecting an Fseed crossing a plant grown from the Fseed to a third tobacco plant and identifying a tobacco plant that is homozygous for the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 1.

In an aspect the present invention includes a method for producing a tobacco plant having decreased nicotine conversion comprising identifying a first tobacco plant having the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 1 crossing the first tobacco plant with a second tobacco plant and collecting an Fseed crossing a plant grown from the Fseed to a third tobacco plant and identifying a tobacco plant that is homozygous for the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 1 wherein said second tobacco plant has the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 1.

In an aspect the present invention includes a method for producing a tobacco plant having decreased nicotine conversion comprising identifying a first tobacco plant having the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 1 crossing the first tobacco plant with a second tobacco plant and collecting an Fseed crossing a plant grown from the Fseed to a third tobacco plant and identifying a tobacco plant that is homozygous for the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 1 wherein said second tobacco plant does not have the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 1 and said third tobacco plant is a tobacco plant having the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 1.

In an aspect the present invention includes a method for producing a tobacco plant having decreased nicotine conversion comprising identifying a first tobacco plant having the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 1 crossing the first tobacco plant with a second tobacco plant and collecting an Fseed crossing a plant grown from the Fseed to a third tobacco plant and identifying a tobacco plant that is homozygous for the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 1 wherein said first tobacco plant is a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of said cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 and ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of said cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717.

In an aspect the present invention includes a method for producing a tobacco plant having decreased nicotine conversion comprising identifying a first tobacco plant having the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 1 crossing the first tobacco plant with a second tobacco plant and collecting an Fseed crossing a plant grown from the Fseed to a third tobacco plant and identifying a tobacco plant that is homozygous for the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 1 wherein said first tobacco plant is a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of said cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 and ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of said cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717 wherein said third tobacco plant is a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of said cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 ALBEX1MS and a representative sample seed of said cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717.

In another aspect the present invention includes a method of producing a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS having an additional desired trait comprising the steps of a collecting tissue capable of being propagated from a plant of a tobacco cultivar selected from the group consisting of ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 and ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of the cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717 and b introducing a transgene conferring the desired trait into the tissue.

In an aspect the present invention includes a method of producing an herbicide resistant tobacco plant comprising transforming the tobacco plant produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of said cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 with a transgene wherein the transgene confers resistance to an herbicide selected from the group consisting of imidazolinone cyclohexanedione sulfonylurea glyphosate glufosinate phenoxy proprionic acid L phosphinothricin triazine and benzonitrile.

In an aspect the present invention includes an herbicide resistant tobacco plant produced by a method of producing an herbicide resistant tobacco plant comprising transforming the tobacco plant produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of said cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 with a transgene wherein the transgene confers resistance to an herbicide selected from the group consisting of imidazolinone cyclohexanedione sulfonylurea glyphosate glufosinate phenoxy proprionic acid L phosphinothricin triazine and benzonitrile.

In an aspect the present invention includes a method of producing a pest or insect resistant tobacco plant wherein the method comprises transforming the tobacco plant produced by a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of said cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 with a transgene that confers pest or insect resistance.

In an aspect the present invention includes a pest or insect resistant tobacco plant produced by transforming the tobacco plant produced by a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of said cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 with a transgene that confers pest or insect resistance.

In an aspect the present invention includes a pest or insect resistant tobacco plant produced by transforming the tobacco plant produced by a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of said cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 with a transgene that confers pest or insect resistance wherein the transgene encodes a BT endotoxin.

In an aspect the present invention includes a method of producing a disease resistant tobacco plant wherein the method comprises transforming a tobacco plant produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of said cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 with a transgene that confers disease resistance.

In an aspect the present invention includes a disease resistant tobacco plant produced by transforming a tobacco plant produced by growing a seed of tobacco cultivar ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of said cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716 with a transgene that confers disease resistance.

The present invention includes tobacco cultivars and parts thereof from ALBEX1F where representative sample seeds of this cultivar have been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716. In another aspect the present invention includes a tobacco plant or a part thereof produced by growing the seed of ALBEX1F. A plant of the present invention can include a plant with essentially all of the morphological and physiological characteristics of cultivar ALBEX1F grown under similar conditions.

While not being limited by process ALBEX1F is a result of the introduction of a mutated CYP84 gene in a Tennessee 90 non LC TN 90 cultivar. The gene is a mutated CYP82E4 gene recited as 4246 in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 611 782 filed on Dec. 15 2006 and published as US 2007 0199097 on Aug. 23 2007 SEQ ID NO 1 which sets forth a cyp82e4 W329Stop hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety . The mutation results in a truncated protein.

ALBEX1F is generated by backcrossing with TN 90 five times as the recurrent parent and selfing twice. ALBEX1F is homozygous for cyp82e4 W329Stop. Again not limited by any particular scientific theory a cyp82e4 W329Stop is recessive. A cyp82e4 W329Stop encodes for proteins with reduced or eliminated ability to convert nicotine to nornicotine. ALBEX1F has a genetic background that is at least 95 at least 97 at least 98 or at least 99 similar to TN 90. ALBEX1FC exhibits low NNN and is not subject to conversion to high NNN s.

The present invention also provides tobacco cultivars and parts thereof from ALBEX1MS where representative sample seeds of this cultivar have been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717. The present invention also includes a tobacco plant or a part thereof produced by growing a seed of ALBEX1MS. A plant of the present invention can include a plant with essentially all of the morphological and physiological characteristics of cultivar ALBEX1MS grown under similar conditions. While not being limited by process ALBEX1MS is a result of introducing the cyp82e4 W329Stop mutation from a BCFTN 90 and crossed as the male parent to TN 90 male sterile MS to prepare MS Fprogeny plants.

The MS Fprogeny plants of the BCF MS TN 90 cross are male sterile. These MS Fprogeny plants e.g. BCFMS are screened for the cyp82e4 W329Stop mutation. Similarly the BCFis crossed with a TN 90 to yield a fertile BCFplant that is screened for the mutation. The MS Fprogeny plant identified as having the mutation is the female parent in a subsequent cross with the fertile male parent BCF which also has the mutation. Progeny of this cross e.g. BCFMS progeny are male sterile and those that are homozygous for the cyp82e4 W329Stop mutation are identified by genotyping and designated as ALBEX1MS. To maintain the line plants of line ALBEX1MS plants are pollinated with a ALBEX1F plant. ALBEX1MS has a genetic background that is at least 95 at least 97 at least 98 at least 99 similar to TN 90. ALBEX1MS exhibits low NNN and is not subject to conversion to high NNN s.

A progeny plant of the present application can be a plant of F F F For later generation obtained by either crossing two parental plants or selfing one plant.

Under similar conditions as defined in the present application can be under similar environmental conditions or under similar laboratory conditions.

The present invention includes a tobacco seed produced by crossing two parent tobacco plants and harvesting the resultant tobacco seed where at least one parent tobacco plant is ALBEX1F. In one aspect the ALBEX1F is the female parent plant. In another aspect the ALBEX1MS is the male parent plant. One aspect of the present invention provides tobacco plants that are homozygous at the cyp82e4 locus for SEQ ID NO 1 which shares a genetic background that is greater than 75 80 85 90 95 98 or 99 TN90. In one aspect approximate or greater than 50 75 or 100 of a progeny s genetics is provided by a plant of the present invention that is homozygous at the cyp82e4 locus for SEQ ID NO 1. In one aspect a plant of the present invention has a genetic background that is at least 95 at least 97 at least 98 or at least 99 similar to TN 90. In another aspect a plant of the present invention exhibits low NNN and is not subject to conversion to high NNN s. In one aspect a plant of the present invention is the progeny plant of a female or male parent plant that is wilt resistant.

In one aspect a plant of the present invention is a medium late maturing variety with moderately high yield potential. In another aspect a plant of the present invention offers a broad range of important agronomic characteristics. In a further aspect a plant of the present invention has one two three four or more of the traits including moderate resistance to black shank some tolerance to blue mold black root rot resistance and resistance to common virus diseases. In another aspect a plant of the present invention has blue mold tolerance and level 4 resistance to both races of black shank and high root rot resistance. In one aspect a plant of the present invention such as ALBEX1F or ALBEX1MS lacks wilt resistance. In another aspect a plant of the present invention is wilt resistant.

In an aspect the plants of the present invention have reduced or eliminated ability to convert nicotine to nornicotine as compared to TN 90 or most other commercial burley tobacco cultivars grown under similar conditions. In an aspect the percentage nicotine conversion is less than 75 70 60 50 or 25 of that found in TN90. The nicotine conversion in plants of the present invention including ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS can be less than about 4 3 1 3 0.5 2 0.5 about 2 about 1 . In a preferred aspect the percentage nicotine conversion is less than 25 10 5 or 2 of that found in TN90 without a cyp82e4 W329Stop mutation. In an aspect the tobacco plants of the present invention have a nicotine conversion rate of 3.5 3.25 3.0 or 2.75 or less. In another aspect the nicotine conversion rate of tobacco plants of the present invention have can be 2.9 2.8 2.7 2.6 2.5 2.4 2.3 2.2 2.1 2.0 1.9 1.8 1.7 1.6 1.5 1.4 1.3 1.2 1.1 1.0 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.6 or less. In another aspect the nicotine conversion rates can be from 0.5 to 0.9 0.5 to 1.5 0.5 to 2.0 0.5 to 2.5 0.5 to 2.75 and 0.5 to 3.0 . In another aspect the nicotine conversion rates can be from 1.0 to 1.5 1.0 to 1.75 1.0 to 2.0 1.0 to 2.5 1.0 to 2.75 and 1.0 to 3.0 . In another aspect the nicotine conversion rate in a plant of the present invention may be less than 2.9 2.75 2.5 2.25 2.0 1.9 1.8 1.7 1.6 1.5 1.4 1.3 1.2 1.1 or 1.0 . In an aspect the tobacco plants of the present invention have a nicotine conversion rate of 3.5 3.25 3.0 or 2.75 or less. In another aspect the nicotine conversion rate of tobacco plants of the present invention can be 2.9 2.8 2.7 2.6 2.5 2.4 2.3 2.2 2.1 2.0 1.9 1.8 1.7 1.6 1.5 1.4 1.3 1.2 1.1 1.0 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.6 or less. In another aspect the nicotine conversion rates can be from 0.5 to 0.9 0.5 to 1.5 0.5 to 2.0 0.5 to 2.5 0.5 to 2.75 and 0.5 to 3.0 . In another aspect the nicotine conversion rates can be from 1.0 to 1.5 1.0 to 1.75 1.0 to 2.0 1.0 to 2.5 1.0 to 2.75 and 1.0 to 3.0 . In another aspect the nicotine conversion rate in a plant of the present invention may be less than 2.9 2.75 2.5 2.25 2.0 1.9 1.8 1.7 1.6 1.5 1.4 1.3 1.2 1.1 or 1.0 .

In another aspect the tobacco plants of the present invention typically have a reduced amount of nornicotine of less than about 0.10 dry weight as compared to TN 90 or most other commercial burley tobacco cultivars grown and processed under similar conditions. For example the nornicotine content in such plants can be 1.2 1.0 0.7 0.5 0.4 0.2 0.1 0.075 0.05 0.025 0.01 0.009 0.0075 0.005 0.0025 0.001 0.0009 0.00075 0.0005 0.00025 0.0001 dry weight or undetectable. In another aspect the nornicotine content can be less than 1.2 1.0 0.7 0.5 0.4 0.2 0.1 0.075 0.05 0.025 0.01 0.009 0.0075 0.005 0.0025 0.001 0.0009 0.00075 0.0005 0.00025 0.0001 dry weight. In another aspect the nornicotine content in such plants can be from 1.2 1.0 0.7 0.5 0.4 0.2 0.1 0.075 0.05 0.025 0.01 0.0075 0.005 0.0025 0.001 0.00075 0.0005 0.00025 or 0.0005 0.0001 dry weight. In a plant of the present invention the nornicotine is a relatively small percentage of total alkaloids in the plant compared to a commercial seedlot of TN90. The nornicotine in a plant of the present invention may be 2 1 less than 3 about 2 about 1.5 about 1 or 0.75 percentage of total alkaloids. Tobacco products having a reduced amount of nitrosamine content and or more stably low nicotine conversion as compared to a product prepared from TN 90 or most other commercial burley tobacco cultivars grown and processed under similar conditions can be manufactured using tobacco plant material from plants and plant parts of the present invention. The tobacco product typically has a reduced amount of nornicotine of less than about 3 mg g. For example the nornicotine content in such a product can be 3.0 mg g 2.5 mg g 2.0 mg g 1.5 mg g 1.0 mg g 750 g g 500 pg g 250 pg g 100 pg g 75 pg g 50 pg g 25 pg g 10 pg g 7.0 pg g 5.0 pg g 4.0 pg g 2.0 pg g 1.0 pg g 0.5 pg g 0.4 pg g 0.2 pg g 0.1 pg g 0.05 pg g 0.01 pg g or undetectable. The tobacco product typically has a reduced amount of NNN of less than about 10 pg g. For example the NNN content in such a product can be about 10 pg g 7.0 pg g 5.0 pg g 4.0 pg g 2.0 pg g 1.0 pg g 0.5 pg g 0.4 pg g 0.2 pg g 0.1 pg g 0.05 pg g 0.01 pg g or undetectable. The percentage of secondary alkaloids relative to total alkaloid content contained in a plant of the present invention may not be statistically different than from a commercial seedlot of TN90.

Differences between two inbred tobacco varieties or two hybrid tobacco varieties can be evaluated using statistical approaches. Statistical analysis includes the calculation of mean values determination of the statistical significance of the sources of variation and the calculation of the appropriate variance components. Methods for determining statistical significance are known in the art. Statistical software is available for example the PROC GLM function of SAS. Significance is generally presented as a p value . A statistically significant p value is less than 0.10. In a preferred aspect the p value is less than or equal to 0.05. In another aspect the p value is 0.04 or less 0.03 or less 0.02 or less. In yet another aspect a statistically significant value is less than 0.01. In yet another aspect it can be less than 0.009 less than 0.008 less than 0.007 less than 0.006 less than 0.005 less than 0.004 less than 0.003 less than 0.002 or less than 0.001.

Tobacco plants of the present invention that are homozygous for a cyp82e4 W329Stop allele have a reversion rate that is statistically significantly lower than corresponding control TN 90 plants having the wild type nicotine demethylase CYP82E4 gene. In addition homozygous CYP82E4 mutant tobacco plants have a percent conversion to nornicotine of less than 3 e.g. 1 to 3 2 to 3 1.8 to 3.15 1.8 to 2.0 or 1.0 to 2.0 . Plants of the present invention can also be non converters with reduced reversion rates as set forth in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 611 782 filed on Dec. 15 2006 and published as US 2007 0199097 on Aug. 23 2007 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Nicotine and nornicotine can be measured in ethylene treated leaves using methods known in the art e.g. gas chromatography . Percent nicotine demethylation in a sample is calculated by dividing the level of nornicotine by the combined level of nicotine and nornicotine as measured in the sample and multiplying by 100. Percent nicotine demethylation in a sample from a plant of the present invention is 50 40 30 20 10 percent of a sample from an individual plant grown from a commercial seedlot of TN 90.

In an aspect the tobacco plants of the present invention have a USDA quality index of about 65. In another aspect the quality index may be at least about 55 60 62.5 or greater. In another aspect tobacco plants of the present invention can have a quality index of 60 65 60 65 60 65 60 70 62.5 65 62.5 70 or 65 70.

A plant of the present invention including ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS can have any yield including high e.g. over 3000 lbs A moderately high e.g. 2200 3000 lbs A and moderate e.g. less than 2000 lbs A yield potential.

In another aspect the present invention also provides for a plant grown from the seed of a ALBEX1F or ALBEX1MS plant in which alkaloids obtained from tobacco plants grown for the seed have decreased nornicotine as well as plant parts and tissue cultures from such plants representative sample seeds of these cultivars having been deposited with the ATCC respectively under ATCC Accession Nos. PTA 11716 and PTA 11717.

An aspect of the present invention provides for parts of the cultivars ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS. For example leaves pollen embryos cotyledons hypocotyls roots root tips anthers flowers ovules shoots stems stalks pith and capsules tissue culture comprising tissue callus cells or protoplasts of the cultivars ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS. In another aspect the present invention provides for parts from hybrids having cultivars ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS as parents or ancestors and ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS derived tobacco plants. In yet another aspect the present invention provides for parts from genetically modified e.g. by conventional breeding or genetic engineering techniques forms of the foregoing plants and tissue culture.

Additional aspects of the present invention provide products comprising tobacco wherein the tobacco further comprises tobacco from the plants of the present invention and parts thereof. Other aspects of the invention provide cured plant leaves and other plant parts. Accordingly in some aspects the cured plant parts include but are not limited to a leaf pollen ovule embryo cotyledon hypocotyl meristematic cell protoplast root root tip pistil anther flower shoot stem pod petiole and the like and combinations thereof.

Thus in some aspects the present invention provides a cured tobacco comprising the leaves of the tobacco plant designated ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of said cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716. In another aspect the present invention provides a cured tobacco comprising the leaves of the tobacco plant designated ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of said cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717.

Thus in some aspects the present invention provides a cured tobacco comprising the stems of the tobacco plant designated ALBEX1F a representative sample seed of said cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11716. In another aspect the present invention provides a cured tobacco comprising the stems of the tobacco plant designated ALBEX1MS a representative sample seed of said cultivar having been deposited with the ATCC under ATCC Accession No. PTA 11717.

In still other aspects the present invention provides a cured tobacco comprising the leaves and stems of the tobacco plants designated ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS representative sample seeds of these cultivars having been deposited with the ATCC respectively under ATCC Accession Nos. PTA 11716 and PTA 11717.

The present invention also provides a container of ALBEX1F or ALBEX1MS seeds or other seeds of the present invention in which alkaloids obtained from tobacco plants grown from greater than 50 of the seeds have decreased nornicotine. In another aspect alkaloids obtained from ALBEX1F or ALBEX1MS plants or other plants of the present invention grown from greater than 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 of the seeds in the container have decreased nornicotine representative sample seeds of these cultivars having been deposited with the ATCC respectively under ATCC Accession Nos. PTA 11716 and PTA 11717.

The container of ALBEX1F or ALBEX1MS seeds or other seeds of the present invention may contain any number weight or volume of seeds. For example a container can contain at least or greater than about 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 or more seeds. Alternatively the container can contain at least or greater than about 1 ounce 5 ounces 10 ounces 1 pound 2 pounds 3 pounds 4 pounds 5 pounds or more seeds. Representative sample seeds of ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS cultivars having been deposited with the ATCC respectively under ATCC Accession Nos. PTA 11716 and PTA 11717.

Containers of ALBEX1F or ALBEX1MS seeds or other seeds of the present invention may be any container available in the art. By way of a non limiting example a container may be a box a bag a packet a pouch a tape roll a pail a foil or a tube representative sample seeds of these cultivars having been deposited with the ATCC. Representative sample seeds of ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS cultivars have been deposited with the ATCC respectively under ATCC Accession Nos. PTA 11716 and PTA 11717.

In another aspect the present invention also provides a container of ALBEX1F or ALBEX1MS in which greater than 50 of ALBEX1F or ALBEX1MS seeds or other seeds of the present invention have decreased nornicotine representative sample seeds of these cultivars having been deposited with the ATCC. Representative sample seeds of ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS cultivars have been deposited with the ATCC respectively under ATCC Accession Nos. PTA 11716 and PTA 11717.

In one aspect the present invention provides a seed of a ALBEX1F or ALBEX1MS plant or other plant of the present invention in which a plant grown from a seed is male sterile. Representative sample seeds of ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS cultivars have been deposited with the ATCC respectively under ATCC Accession Nos. PTA 11716 and PTA 11717.

Tobacco material obtained from the tobacco lines varieties or hybrids of the present invention can be used to make tobacco products including without limitation cigarette products e.g. cigarettes and bidi cigarettes cigar products e.g. cigar wrapping tobacco and cigarillos pipe tobacco products smokeless cigarette products smokeless tobacco products e.g. moist snuff dry snuff and chewing tobacco films chewables tabs shaped parts gels consumable units insoluble matrices hollow shapes and the like. See e.g. U.S. Patent Publication No. US 2006 0191548 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Tobacco products derived from plants of the present invention also include cigarettes and other smoking articles particularly those smoking articles including filter elements wherein the rod of smokeable material includes cured tobacco within a tobacco blend. In an aspect a tobacco product may be pipe tobacco cigar tobacco cigarette tobacco chewing tobacco leaf tobacco shredded tobacco and cut tobacco.

In an aspect the tobacco product of the present invention can be a blended tobacco product. In other aspects of the invention the tobacco product of the present invention can be a reduced nicotine tobacco product as compared to a product prepared from TN 90 or most other commercial burley tobacco cultivars grown and processed under similar conditions. In still other aspects the tobacco product of the present invention can be a blended tobacco product with reduced nicotine content as compared to a product prepared from TN 90 or most other commercial burley tobacco cultivars grown and processed under similar conditions. Thus the tobacco product of the present invention can be a blended reduced nicotine tobacco product as compared to a product prepared from TN 90 or most other commercial burley tobacco cultivars grown and processed under similar conditions. Tobacco product material comprises a blend of tobacco materials from the present invention wherein the blend comprises at least about 5 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 or 95 percent by weight of a cured tobacco based on the dry weight of the tobacco material. US 2008 0245377 is herein incorporated by reference for blend mixtures in its entirety.

In an aspect tobacco products having a reduced amount of nitrosamine content and or more stably low nicotine conversion as compared to a product prepared from TN 90 or most other commercial burley tobacco cultivars grown and processed under similar conditions can be manufactured using tobacco plant material from plants and plant parts of the present invention. The tobacco product typically has a reduced amount of nornicotine of less than about 3 mg g. For example the nornicotine content in such a product can be 3.0 mg g 2.5 mg g 2.0 mg g 1.5 mg g 1.0 mg g 750 g g 500 pg g 250 pg g 100 pg g 75 pg g 50 pg g 25 pg g 10 pg g 7.0 pg g 5.0 pg g 4.0 pg g 2.0 pg g 1.0 pg g 0.5 pg g 0.4 pg g 0.2 pg g 0.1 pg g 0.05 pg g 0.01 pg g or undetectable. The tobacco product typically has a reduced amount of NNN of less than about 10 pg g. For example the nornicotine content in such a product can be about 10 pg g 7.0 pg g 5.0 pg g 4.0 pg g 2.0 pg g 1.0 pg g 0.5 pg g 0.4 pg g 0.2 pg g 0.1 pg g 0.05 pg g 0.01 pg g or undetectable. The percentage of secondary alkaloids relative to total alkaloid content contained in a plant of the present invention may not be statistically different than from a commercial seedlot of TN90 LC.

A tobacco plant of the present invention designated ALBEX1F or ALBEX1MS carrying a cyp82e4 W329Stop allele can be used in a plant breeding program to create useful lines cultivars varieties progeny inbreds and hybrids. Thus in some aspects an F F F or later generation tobacco plant containing a cyp82e4 W329Stop alleles is crossed with a second plant and progeny of the cross are identified in which a cyp82e4 W329Stop allele is present. It will be appreciated that the second plant will be ALBEX1F or ALBEX1MS optionally with an additional desirable trait such as herbicide resistance mentioned below. It will also be appreciated that the second TN90 or TN90 LC plant will contain a cyp82e4 W329Stop allele.

In still other aspects methods of the present invention further include self pollinating or pollinating a male sterile pollen acceptor with a pollen donor capable of being used in production of a progeny of the present invention such as a male sterile hybrid of the present invention. Either the male sterile pollen acceptor plant or the pollen donor plant has at least one mutant allele at a nicotine demethylase locus such as cyp82e4 W329Stop. In an aspect an allele at a nicotine demethylase locus is a mutant allele making the plant homozygous for cyp82e4 W329Stop.

Breeding can be carried out via any known procedures. DNA fingerprinting SNP or similar technologies may be used in a marker assisted selection MAS breeding program to transfer or breed mutant alleles of a nicotine demethylase gene into other tobaccos. For example a breeder can create segregating populations from hybridizations of a genotype containing a cyp82e4 W329Stop allele with an agronomically desirable genotype. Plants in the For backcross generations can be screened using a marker developed from a cyp82e4 W329Stop allele or a fragment thereof using one of the techniques known in the art or listed herein. Plants identified as possessing a cyp82e4 W329Stop allele can be backcrossed or self pollinated to create a second population to be screened. Depending on the expected inheritance pattern or the MAS technology used it may be necessary to self pollinate the selected plants before each cycle of backcrossing to aid identification of the desired individual plants. Backcrossing or other breeding procedure can be repeated until the desired phenotype of the recurrent parent is recovered. A recurrent parent in the present invention can be ALBEX1F or TN 90. Other breeding techniques can be found for example in Wernsman E. A. and Rufty R. C. 1987. Chapter Seventeen. Tobacco. Pages 669 698 In Cultivar Development. Crop Species. W. H. Fehr ed. MacMillan Publishing Go. Inc. New York N.Y. incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The result of a plant breeding program using the mutant tobacco plants described herein includes useful lines cultivars varieties progeny inbreds and hybrids. As used herein the term variety refers to a population of plants that share constant characteristics which separate them from other plants of the same species. A variety is often although not always sold commercially. While possessing one or more distinctive traits a variety is further characterized by a very small overall variation between individuals within that variety. A pure line variety may be created by several generations of self pollination and selection or vegetative propagation from a single parent using tissue or cell culture techniques. A variety can be essentially derived from another line or variety. As defined by the International Convention for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants Dec. 2 1961 as revised at Geneva on Nov. 10 1972 on Oct. 23 1978 and on Mar. 19 1991 a variety is essentially derived from an initial variety if a it is predominantly derived from the initial variety or from a variety that is predominantly derived from the initial variety while retaining the expression of the essential characteristics that result from the genotype or combination of genotypes of the initial variety b it is clearly distinguishable from the initial variety and c except for the differences which result from the act of derivation it conforms to the initial variety in the expression of the essential characteristics that result from the genotype or combination of genotypes of the initial variety. Essentially derived varieties can be obtained for example by the selection of a natural or induced mutant a somaclonal variant a variant individual from plants of the initial variety backcrossing or transformation. A line as distinguished from a variety most often denotes a group of plants used non commercially for example in plant research. A line typically displays little overall variation between individuals for one or more traits of interest although there may be some variation between individuals for other traits.

Hybrid tobacco varieties can be produced by preventing self pollination of female parent plants i.e. seed parents of a first variety permitting pollen from male parent plants of a second variety to fertilize the female parent plants and allowing Fhybrid seeds to form on the female plants. Self pollination of female plants can be prevented by emasculating the flowers at an early stage of flower development. Alternatively pollen formation can be prevented on the female parent plants using a form of male sterility. For example male sterility can be produced by male sterility MS or transgenic male sterility wherein a transgene inhibits microsporogenesis and or pollen formation or self incompatibility. Female parent plants containing MS are particularly useful. In aspects in which the female parent plants are MS pollen may be harvested from male fertile plants and applied manually to the stigmas of MS female parent plants and the resulting Fseed is harvested.

Plants can be used to form single cross tobacco Fhybrids. In such an aspect the plants of the parent varieties can be grown as substantially homogeneous adjoining populations to facilitate natural cross pollination from the male parent plants to the female parent plants. The Fseed formed on the female parent plants is selectively harvested by conventional means. One also can grow the two parent plant varieties in bulk and harvest a blend of Fhybrid seed formed on the female parent and seed formed upon the male parent as the result of self pollination. Alternatively three way crosses can be carried out wherein a single cross Fhybrid is used as a female parent and is crossed with a different male parent. As another alternative double cross hybrids can be created wherein the Fprogeny of two different single crosses are themselves crossed. Self incompatibility can be used to particular advantage to prevent self pollination of female parents when forming a double cross hybrid.

Successful crosses yield Fplants that are fertile have a cyp82e4 W329Stop allele and can be backcrossed with one of the parents such as ALBEX1F or TN 90 if desired. In some aspects a plant population in the Fgeneration is screened for a cyp82e4 W329Stop allele. Selected plants can be crossed with one of the parents and the first backcross BC1 generation plants are self pollinated to produce a BC1Fpopulation that is again screened for variant nicotine demethylase gene expression e.g. the null version of the nicotine demethylase gene . The process of backcrossing self pollination and screening is repeated for example at least 4 times until the final screening produces a plant that is fertile and reasonably similar to the recurrent parent. This plant if desired is self pollinated and the progeny are subsequently screened again to confirm that the plant exhibits the same low nicotine conversion phenotype as ALBEX1F. Breeder s seed of the selected plant is produced using standard methods including for example field testing confirmation of the null condition for nicotine demethylase chemical analyses of cured leaf to determine the level of alkaloids and or chemical analyses of cured leaf to determine the ratio of nornicotine to nicotine nornicotine.

In one aspect a Fprogeny is the result of a cross between ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS to generate Fprogeny that are male sterile. Male sterile tobacco plants may be produced by any method known in the art. Methods of producing male sterile tobacco are described in Wernsman E. A. and Rufty R. C. 1987. Chapter Seventeen. Tobacco. Pages 669 698 In Cultivar Development. Crop Species. W. H. Fehr ed. MacMillan Publishing Go. Inc. New York N.Y. 761 pp.

The present invention further provides methods of producing a tobacco plant by crossing one of cultivars ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS with itself or a different tobacco line. The invention further relates to methods for producing other tobacco cultivars or breeding lines derived from cultivars ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS by crossing a plant of cultivars ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS with a second tobacco plant and growing the progeny seed to yield an ALBEX1F or ALBEX1MS derived tobacco plant. An additional aspect of the present invention provides a method for a tobacco plant that contains in its genetic material one or more transgenes comprising crossing cultivars of the present invention with a second cultivar containing one or more transgenes wherein progeny are produced so that the genetic material of the progeny that result from the cross comprise the transgene s optionally operably linked to one or more regulatory elements. In one aspect the second cultivar may be a plant derived from cultivars ALBEX1F or ALBEX1MS transformed with one or more transgenes.

The invention further provides for the vegetative propagation of a plant of cultivars ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS hybrids and progeny thereof. In one aspect the invention provides for a method of vegetatively propagating a plant of a tobacco cultivar comprising collecting tissue capable of being propagated from a plant of a plant of cultivars ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS cultivating the tissue to obtain a proliferated shoot and rooting the proliferated shoots to obtain a rooted plantlet. In another aspect the plant tissue may be collected from an Fhybrid of a plant of cultivars ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS. In an aspect the plant tissue may be collected from an F F For later progeny plant obtained by breeding a plant of cultivars ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS.

A plant comprising a mutation in a nicotine demethylase gene can be identified by selecting or screening the mutagenized plant material or progeny thereof. Such screening and selection methodologies are known to those having ordinary skill in the art. Examples of screening and selection methodologies include but are not limited to Southern analysis PCR amplification for detection of a polynucleotide Northern blots RNase protection primer extension RT PCR amplification for detecting RNA transcripts enzymatic assays for detecting enzyme or ribozyme activity of polypeptides and polynucleotides and protein gel electrophoresis Western blots immunoprecipitation and enzyme linked immunoassays to detect polypeptides. Other techniques such as in situ hybridization enzyme staining and immunostaining also can be used to detect the presence or expression of polypeptides and or polynucleotides. Methods for performing all of the referenced techniques are known.

It is understood that a tobacco plant of the present invention including ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS can be transformed by a genetic construct or transgene using a technique known in the art. Without limitation an example of a desired trait is herbicide resistance pest resistance disease resistance high yield high grade index curability curing quality mechanical harvestability holding ability leaf quality height plant maturation e.g. early maturing early to medium maturing medium maturing medium to late maturing or late maturing stalk size e.g. a small medium or a large stalk or leaf number per plant e.g. a small e.g. 5 10 leaves medium e.g. 11 15 leaves or large e.g. 16 21 number of leaves or any combination. Any plant of the present invention can be used as a basis for tissue culture regenerated transformed or a combination of any of these. In an aspect a plant of the present invention derived by tissue culture transformation or both has essentially all of the morphological and physiological characteristics of cultivar ALBEX1F or ALBEX1MS grown under similar conditions.

Having now generally described the invention the same will be more readily understood through reference to the following examples that are provided by way of illustration and are not intended to be limiting of the present invention unless specified.

ALBEX1F is a backcross derived version of burley tobacco cultivar TN 90 carrying an introduced deleterious mutation in cyp82e4 a gene previously documented to encode for nicotine demethylase enzymes. To prepare ALBEX1F an individual plant grown from a commercial seedlot of TN 90 is selected and initially crossed with plant 4246 8 in a greenhouse. 4246 8 is a tobacco cultivar heterozygous for the cyp82e4 W329Stop mutation. A plurality of Fplants are screened for the presence of the cyp82e4 W329Stop mutation. Individual Fplants are selected and backcrossed to TN 90 in a greenhouse to produce BCFprogeny. A plurality of BCFprogeny are screened and an individual plant heterozygous for the cyp82e4 W329Stop mutation is identified. The heterozygous selected BCFplant is backcrossed to TN 90 in a greenhouse to produce BCFseed. A plurality of BCFplants are screened for the presence of the cyp82e4 W329Stop mutation to identify a heterozygous progeny plant for a subsequent round of backcross breeding. Using this backcross procedure individual heterozygous plants having the cyp82e4 W329Stop mutation are identified in the BCF BCF and BCFprogeny.

To produce plants homozygous for the cyp82e4 W329Stop mutation BCFprogeny plants are screened for the cyp82e4 W329Stop mutation to identify heterozygous plants. Individual plants heterozygous for the cyp82e4 W329Stop mutation are self pollinated to produce BCFseed. A plurality of BCFprogeny are genotyped to identify individuals homozygous for the cyp82e4 W329Stop mutation. Four individual BCFprogeny plants are self pollinated to produce four BCFprogeny lines. BCFare homozygous for the CYP82E4 W329Stop mutation.

To prepare a male sterile MS line a progeny plant of the BCFprepared in Example 1 described above that is heterozygous for the cyp82e4 W329Stop mutation is selected and crossed as the pollen parent to a MS TN 90. The MS Fprogeny plants of the BCF MS TN 90 cross are male sterile. These MS Fprogeny plants e.g. BCFMS are screened for the cyp82e4 W329Stop mutation. Similarly the BCFis crossed with a TN 90 to yield a fertile BCFplant that is screened for the mutation. The MS Fprogeny plant identified as having the mutation is the female parent in a subsequent cross with the fertile male parent BCF which also has the mutation. Progeny of this cross e.g. BCFMS progeny are male sterile and those that are homozygous for the cyp82e4 W329Stop mutation are identified by genotyping and designated as ALBEX1MS. To maintain the line plants of line ALBEX1MS plants are pollinated with a ALBEX1F plant.

Plants from the four ALBEX1MS progeny lines are grown in a randomized complete block design with three replications for evaluation of cured leaf chemistry yield and physical quality at the Blackstone field research location during 2010. Each replicated block is a 2 row plot with 25 plants per plot. Plants are stalk cut at maturity air cured and evaluated by a former USDA tobacco grader. Plot weights are used to determine per acre yields. The fourth leaf from the top of twelve different test plants are collected to prepare a fifty gram composite leaf sample from each plot. Composite samples are analyzed for percent nicotine nornicotine anatabine and anabasine by gas chromatography.

The results of gas chromatography alkaloid analysis are presented in Table 1. Gas chromatography results are analyzed using JMP statistical software and a one way analysis of variance is performed. The ALBEX1MS hybrid is found to not be significantly differed for different for nicotine nornicotine anabasine anatabine nicotine conversion ratio of secondary alkaloids to total alkaloids yield or cured leaf quality.

A deposit of at least 2500 seeds of the proprietary inbred plant lines disclosed above and recited in the appended claims have been made with American Type Culture Collection ATCC 10801 University Boulevard Manassas Va. 20110. The date of deposit for ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS was Feb. 28 2011 for both on behalf of Altria Client Services Inc. The deposit of 2500 seeds for each variety were taken from the same deposit maintained since prior to the filing date of this application. Upon issuance of a patent all restrictions upon the deposit will be irrevocably removed and the deposit is intended to meet all of the requirements of 37 C.F.R. 1.801 1.809. The ATCC accession numbers for inbred lines ALBEX1F and ALBEX1MS are respectively PTA 11716 and PTA 11717. These deposits will be maintained in the depository for a period of 30 years or 5 years after the last request or for the effective life of the patent whichever is longer and will be replaced as necessary during that period. Applicants do not waive any infringement of their rights granted under this patent or under the Plant Variety Protection Act 7 U.S.C. 2321 et seq. .

