---

title: Offloading call processing and call hosting for a small group call to a client device
abstract: The disclosure relates to hosting a group call at a wireless user device. An embodiment receives, by the wireless user device, registration information for a plurality of client devices, receives, by the wireless user device, a call request for a call among two or more of the plurality of client devices, sets up, by the wireless user device, the call among the two or more client devices, receives, by the wireless user device, a media stream, and transmits, by the wireless user device, the media stream to at least one of the two or more client devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09066212&OS=09066212&RS=09066212
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09066212
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121030
---
The disclosure is directed to dynamically offloading call processing and call hosting for a small group call to a client device.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and third generation 3G and fourth generation 4G high speed data Internet capable wireless services. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

More recently Long Term Evolution LTE has been developed as a wireless communications protocol for wireless communication of high speed data for mobile phones and other data terminals. LTE is based on GSM and includes contributions from various GSM related protocols such as Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS protocols such as High Speed Packet Access HSPA .

There are currently two major ways to deliver voice services using voice over internet protocol VoIP the centralized client server model and the peer to peer P2P model. The centralized client server model is the traditional system. An application layer server and various core components are required to provide instantaneous communication services for group calls and direct calls. Relying on a server for such communication has three major issues however cost scalability and complexity.

P2P systems include both pure P2P and hybrid models. The P2P model addresses some of the drawbacks of the client server model such as cost scalability and complexity. However P2P systems do not provide many of the advantages of the client server model. For instance current P2P systems do not address all of the telecom carrier s needs such as secure user authentication security Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act CALEA compliance recording usage provisioning etc. Further because media flows from peer to peer it provides challenges for inter operability i.e. transcoding needs conferencing i.e. mixing needs etc.

The disclosure relates to hosting a group call at a wireless user device. An embodiment receives by the wireless user device registration information for a plurality of client devices receives by the wireless user device a call request for a call among two or more of the plurality of client devices sets up by the wireless user device the call among the two or more client devices receives by the wireless user device a media stream and transmits by the wireless user device the media stream to at least one of the two or more client devices.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A client device referred to herein as a user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with a radio access network RAN . As used herein the term UE may be referred to interchangeably as an access terminal or AT a wireless device a subscriber device a subscriber terminal a subscriber station a user terminal or UT a mobile terminal a mobile station and variations thereof. Generally UEs can communicate with a core network via the RAN and through the core network the UEs can be connected with external networks such as the Internet. Of course other mechanisms of connecting to the core network and or the Internet are also possible for the UEs such as over wired access networks WI FI networks e.g. wireless local area networks based on IEEE 802.11 etc. and so on. UEs can be embodied by any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC cards compact flash devices external or internal modems wireless or wireline phones and so on. A communication link through which UEs can send signals to the RAN is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a reverse control channel an access channel etc. . A communication link through which the RAN can send signals to UEs is called a downlink or forward link channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring to UEs 1 . . . N are configured to communicate with an access network e.g. the RAN an access point etc. over a physical communications interface or layer shown in as air interfaces and or a direct wired connection. The air interfaces and can comply with a given cellular communications protocol e.g. CDMA EVDO eHRPD GSM EDGE W CDMA LTE etc. while the air interface can comply with a wireless IP protocol e.g. IEEE 802.11 . The RAN includes a plurality of access points that serve UEs over air interfaces such as the air interfaces and . The access points in the RAN can be referred to as access nodes or ANs access points or APs base stations or BSs Node Bs eNode Bs and so on. These access points can be terrestrial access points or ground stations or satellite access points. The RAN is configured to connect to a core network that can perform a variety of functions including bridging circuit switched CS calls between UEs served by the RAN and other UEs served by the RAN or a different RAN altogether and can also mediate an exchange of packet switched PS data with external networks such as Internet . The Internet includes a number of routing agents and processing agents not shown in for the sake of convenience . In UE N is shown as connecting to the Internet directly i.e. separate from the core network such as over an ETHERNET connection of a WI FI or 802.11 based network . The Internet can thereby function to bridge packet switched data communications between UE N and UEs 1 . . . N via the core network . Also shown in is the access point that is separate from the RAN . The access point may be connected to the Internet independent of the core network e.g. via an optical communication system such as FiOS a cable modem etc. . The air interface may serve UE or UE over a local wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11 in an example. UE N is shown as a desktop computer with a wired connection to the Internet such as a direct connection to a modem or router which can correspond to the access point itself in an example e.g. for a WI FI router with both wired and wireless connectivity .

Referring to an application server is shown as connected to the Internet the core network or both. The application server can be implemented as a plurality of structurally separate servers or alternately may correspond to a single server. As will be described below in more detail the application server is configured to support one or more communication services e.g. Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP sessions Push to Talk PTT sessions group communication sessions social networking services etc. for UEs that can connect to the application server via the core network and or the Internet .

Examples of protocol specific implementations for the RAN and the core network are provided below with respect to to help explain the wireless communications system in more detail. In particular the components of the RAN and the core network corresponds to components associated with supporting packet switched PS communications whereby legacy circuit switched CS components may also be present in these networks but any legacy CS specific components are not shown explicitly in .

In the core network includes the above noted SGSN B and potentially a number of other SGSNs as well and a GGSN B. Generally GPRS is a protocol used in GSM for routing IP packets. The GPRS core network e.g. the GGSN B and one or more SGSNs B is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G access networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network i.e. the core network that provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. UEs of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the Internet as if from one location at the GGSN B. This is achieved by transferring the respective UE s data from the UE s current SGSN B to the GGSN B which is handling the respective UE s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of PDP contexts verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN B acts as an interface between a GPRS backbone network not shown and the Internet . The GGSN B extracts packet data with associated a packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from GPRS packets coming from the SGSN B and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN connected UE to the SGSN B which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of a target UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN B stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and its associated profile in a location register e.g. within a PDP context . The GGSN B is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for a connected UE. The GGSN B also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN B is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN B includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN B stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN B for example within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs B are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN B ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN B iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or UTRAN in UMTS system architecture communicates with the SGSN B via a Radio Access Network Application Part RANAP protocol. RANAP operates over a Iu interface Iu ps with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN B communicates with the GGSN B via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN B and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs not shown and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . In the embodiment of the Gn between the SGSN B and the GGSN B carries both the GTP C and the GTP U. While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN B is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

In the core network includes a plurality of Mobility Management Entities MMES D and D a Home Subscriber Server HSS D a Serving Gateway S GW D a Packet Data Network Gateway P GW D and a Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF D. Network interfaces between these components the RAN and the Internet are illustrated in and are defined in Table 1 below as follows 

A high level description of the components shown in the RAN and core network of will now be described. However these components are each well known in the art from various 3GPP TS standards and the description contained herein is not intended to be an exhaustive description of all functionalities performed by these components.

Referring to the MMEs D and D are configured to manage the control plane signaling for the EPS bearers. MME functions include Non Access Stratum NAS signaling NAS signaling security Mobility management for inter and intra technology handovers P GW and S GW selection and MME selection for handovers with MME change.

Referring to the S GW D is the gateway that terminates the interface toward the RAN . For each UE associated with the core network for an EPS based system at a given point of time there is a single S GW. The functions of the S GW D for both the GTP based and the Proxy Mobile IPv6 PMIP based S5 S8 include Mobility anchor point Packet routing and forwarding and setting the DiffSery Code Point DSCP based on a QoS Class Identifier QCI of the associated EPS bearer.

Referring to the P GW D is the gateway that terminates the SGi interface toward the Packet Data Network PDN e.g. the Internet . If a UE is accessing multiple PDNs there may be more than one P GW for that UE however a mix of S5 S8 connectivity and Gn Gp connectivity is not typically supported for that UE simultaneously. P GW functions include for both the GTP based S5 S8 Packet filtering by deep packet inspection UE IP address allocation setting the DSCP based on the QCI of the associated EPS bearer accounting for inter operator charging uplink UL and downlink DL bearer binding as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203 UL bearer binding verification as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203. The P GW D provides PDN connectivity to both GSM EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN UTRAN only UEs and E UTRAN capable UEs using any of E UTRAN GERAN or UTRAN. The P GW D provides PDN connectivity to E UTRAN capable UEs using E UTRAN only over the S5 S8 interface.

Referring to the PCRF D is the policy and charging control element of the EPS based core network . In a non roaming scenario there is a single PCRF in the HPLMN associated with a UE s Internet Protocol Connectivity Access Network IP CAN session. The PCRF terminates the Rx interface and the Gx interface. In a roaming scenario with local breakout of traffic there may be two PCRFs associated with a UE s IP CAN session A Home PCRF H PCRF is a PCRF that resides within a HPLMN and a Visited PCRF V PCRF is a PCRF that resides within a visited VPLMN. PCRF is described in more detail in 3GPP TS 23.203 and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity. In the application server e.g. which can be referred to as the AF in 3GPP terminology is shown as connected to the core network via the Internet or alternatively to the PCRF D directly via an Rx interface. Generally the application server or AF is an element offering applications that use IP bearer resources with the core network e.g. UMTS PS domain GPRS domain resources LTE PS data services . One example of an application function is the Proxy Call Session Control Function P CSCF of the IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS Core Network sub system. The AF uses the Rx reference point to provide session information to the PCRF D. Any other application server offering IP data services over cellular network can also be connected to the PCRF D via the Rx reference point.

In the eHRPD RAN includes a plurality of base transceiver stations BTSs E E and E which are connected to an enhanced BSC eBSC and enhanced PCF ePCF E. The eBSC ePCF E can connect to one of the MMEs D or D of within the LTE EPS core network A over an S101 interface and to an HRPD serving gateway HSGW E over A10 and or A11 interfaces for interfacing with other entities in the LTE EPS core network A e.g. the S GW D over an S103 interface the P GW D over an S2a interface the PCRF D over a Gxa interface a 3GPP AAA server not shown explicitly in over an STa interface etc. . The HSGW E is defined in 3GPP2 to provide the interworking between HRPD networks and EPS LTE networks. As will be appreciated the eHRPD RAN and the HSGW E are configured with interface functionality to EPS LTE networks that is not available in legacy HRPD networks.

Turning back to the eHRPD RAN in addition to interfacing with the EPS LTE core network A the eHRPD RAN can also interface with legacy HRPD networks such as HRPD core network B. As will be appreciated the HRPD core network B is an example implementation of a legacy HRPD network such as the EV DO network from . For example the eBSC ePCF E can interface with an authentication authorization and accounting AAA server E via an A12 interface or to a PDSN FA E via an A10 or A11 interface. The PDSN FA E in turn connects to HA A through which the Internet can be accessed. In certain interfaces e.g. A13 A16 H1 H2 etc. are not described explicitly but are shown for completeness and would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art familiar with HRPD or eHRPD.

Referring to it will be appreciated that LTE core networks e.g. and HRPD core networks that interface with eHRPD RANs and HSGWs e.g. can support network initiated Quality of Service QoS e.g. by the P GW GGSN SGSN etc. in certain cases.

While internal components of UEs such as the UEs A and B can be embodied with different hardware configurations a basic high level UE configuration for internal hardware components is shown as platform in . The platform can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks e.g. application server web URLs etc. . The platform can also independently execute locally stored applications without RAN interaction. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can store applications not actively used in memory as well as other data. The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE e.g. UE A B etc. including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UEs A and B in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UEs A and or B and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE A or B one of BSs A through A one of Node Bs B through B one of eNodeBs D through D etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. BLUETOOTH WI FI 2G CDMA W CDMA 3G 4G LTE etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an ETHERNET connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. PDSN SGSN GGSN S GW P GW MME HSS PCRF the application etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an ETHERNET card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an ETHERNET protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display A of UE A or the touchscreen display B of UE B. In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touchscreen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the keypad A any of the buttons A or B through B the touchscreen display B etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

Generally unless stated otherwise explicitly the phrase logic configured to as used throughout this disclosure is intended to invoke an embodiment that is at least partially implemented with hardware and is not intended to map to software only implementations that are independent of hardware. Also it will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

There are currently two major ways to deliver voice services using voice over internet protocol VoIP the centralized client server model and the peer to peer P2P model. The centralized client server model is the traditional system. An application layer server and various core components are required to provide instantaneous communication services for group calls and direct calls. Relying on a server for such communication has three major issues however 

1. Cost There is a high cost associated with using a server such as the cost of the initial deployment and subsequent maintenance. Further in order to enhance the reliability of the server the cost of deployment necessarily increases.

2. Scalability As the number of subscribers increases the number of servers must increase. Additionally the servers need to be able to handle load spikes. That is the servers need to be scalable to support call processing during periods of high traffic volume even though most of the time the average load is much less.

3. Complexity Servers require a number of subcomponents and inter component interfaces to handle call setup and hosting. Servers also require complex messaging on the client server interface in order to maintain the call state on the server components. The call state is in turn derived from and dependent on the state of the client.

Despite the drawbacks there are a number of reasons to use a server for call hosting. For call setup the server can authenticate the originator lookup the group definition lookup the target IP addresses and check the call capability and restrictions. For call hosting the server can replicate the media streams for each target. For Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act CALEA compliance the server can enforce the opaque marking and media forwarding requirements. For billing the operator can use the usage records from the server to bill the end user. For operations administration and management OAM the server can provide performance metrics and troubleshooting capability to the operator. For provisioning the server can provide the operator with the ability to update the provisioning such as by changing call restrictions and enabling disabling call type capability.

P2P systems include both pure P2P and hybrid models. The P2P model addresses some of the drawbacks of the client server model such as cost scalability and complexity. However P2P systems do not provide many of the advantages of the client server model. For instance current P2P systems do not address all of the telecom carrier s needs such as secure user authentication security CALEA compliance recording usage provisioning etc. Further because media flows from peer to peer it provides challenges for inter operability i.e. transcoding needs conferencing i.e. mixing needs etc.

Regarding security in a P2P system in a super node network such as Skype one device becomes a super node without permission of the owner of the device. This model does not work for a mobile device and as such most of the devices may not be able to serve as the super node.

Finally it is difficult to provide auxiliary services in a P2P system such as CALEA compliance billing and provisioning. These limitations of the current P2P systems both pure and hybrid models do not make it suitable for carrier grade telecom services.

Usually cell phone users repeatedly interact with a small number of people. Relying on a server for such communications is an unnecessary use of costly server resources. Accordingly the various embodiments provide a solution whereby a centralized server is not needed at all times to provide efficient group communication for calls among a small group of subscribers. A small group of subscribers may be for example two to five subscribers. However as cell phone technology improves the number of subscribers would necessarily increase and the various embodiments are not limited to a particular number of subscribers in a group.

The various embodiments are not a traditional P2P solution. The various embodiments employ the traditional centralized client server model but with the server dynamically offloading certain types of communications while still performing all other necessary functionality. Specifically the server dynamically offloads call processing and call hosting to a client device called the hub among the small group of client devices and retains control of all other server functionality for that group. The server may offload these service during times of high traffic volume when traffic volume reaches a threshold on a call by call basis or whenever possible.

The server can use certain associations among client devices to decide how when and to what client device to offload the call processing and call hosting. For example the server may determine that a group of five subscribers call each other more frequently than they call anyone else. The calls may be direct calls from one subscriber to another or group calls among a plurality of the subscribers. Accordingly the server will associate the five subscribers. The server may store this association as a table or some other data structure that relates elements to each other.

Having identified a group association of subscribers the server can offload simple services such as call processing and call hosting to the group. A client device of a member of the group administers call setup management and media delivery on an ad hoc basis for calls among the group. This is feasible now with the increased processing power of current generation cell phones and the availability of the 3G 4G WI FI data bandwidth. The server automatically takes control back from the client for advanced services such as services that require transcoding inter operability mixing etc.

Accordingly the various embodiments extend the server ability to a client device while the server remains in control and provides all the auxiliary services for the calls such as CALEA billing provisioning security authentication etc. There are a number of main design points 

1. Registration Registration information for the designated associated group members is available to the hub client device. The registration information can come from the application server or each member of the call can send the registration information to the hub client.

2. Synchronization between the server and hub The server may optionally send an indication to the client devices in the group based on load time etc. to use the client based solution to setup the call for a specific group call. In this situation there will be a time to live time of for example six to twelve hours after which if the hub or all the group member devices cannot communicate with the server the group call setup functionality is stopped at the hub client. The server remains aware of the mobile group and any time there is any change in the provisioning the server will update the hub or all the group member devices.

The server also provides distributed offloading of the provisioning. Specifically upon a hub server synchronization provisioning information for all devices served by the hub is passed to the hub. The hub then distributes the provisioning payload to the individual member devices during a subsequent group call direct call s . This offloads several one to one provisioning transactions between the server and the group devices to relatively fewer segregated provisioning transactions between the server and the hub device. This is eventually followed by calls piggybacked with provisioning content.

3. Partial offloading to the hub The server may optionally offload only the media forwarding functionality to the hub device while the server continues to provide call setup signaling.

4. Dynamic change of the designated hub Initially the call originator can act as the controller of the call or the server may designate a hub. However once the call is established any other member can take control based on the client device s capability battery power situation memory processing capability which varies with application and operating system load socket s availability radio frequency RF condition etc. For example if the hub device finds that its power status is low it may send a request to the group that another member take over the call. Key capability metrics KCMs of the device are used to ascertain eligibility for taking over as a hub.

The KCMs can be used for dynamic hub ranking and arbitration. That is if two devices are similar in hub capabilities a ranking algorithm can be employed to ascertain whether a dynamic switch should take place as a result of a KCM change. For example given two similarly capable devices eligible for being the hub if one device is put on a charger the KCM of this device would be higher than the other eligible device. The ranking algorithm could consider the following metrics in descending order a processing resources e.g. CPU memory b power availability or mode a device may be low on power but if charging will score a higher KCM c RF bandwidth wireless local area network WLAN bandwidth is typically greater than wireless wide area network WWAN bandwidth but when larger group calls are to be hosted LTE would be preferable over a slower WLAN.

Each device in the group can report its KCM to determine whether another device should be the hub. Specifically the hub and associated devices can have an intermittent hub state handshake message indicating their KCM for hub eligibility and switching. This can be a localized algorithm on the current hub whereby hub eligible devices report their own KCM to the hub. When the current hub cannot sustain operations it initiates a hub handoff. The hub handoff can also be reported to the server. It is possible that occasionally no device would be eligible or available to be the hub. In such a case a hub handoff would indicate the server as the next hub. Hub handoffs can include immediate or deferred posting of usage records to the server.

5. Reliability In case of failure or no response from the other device s the hub client will seamlessly contact the server.

6. CALEA If one or more of the clients in the group of offloaded clients are marked by a law enforcement agency the server will reliably send update information to all the offloaded client devices which will deactivate the client based approach and setup the call using the application server.

7. Billing and OAM The hub client caches the call records and during off peak times sends the usage and OAM records to the server out of band.

At the application server forms an association among client A A client B B and client C C. The application server forms this association because it has determined that client A A client B B and client C C frequently communicate with each other in group calls and or directly.

After forming the group association a client device in the associated group is dynamically assigned as the hub. The application server may assign one of the client devices as the hub randomly or based on various criteria such as the client device with the best KCMs the client device most likely to initiate a call etc. Alternatively the group member devices can determine the hub. The hub could be the client device initiating a call or the client device with the best KCMs. At the clients communicate with each other using either a star connection or a mesh connection.

At the hub client B in the example of sends periodic updates to the application server . These updates can include the usage data records UDR and OAM information. These updates also refresh the hub assignment timer. The hub assignment timer tracks the amount of time since the hub last communicated with the server. This is useful for determining whether the group has exceeded its time to live. 

At the application server ends the offloading of server functionality to the communication group. This may be at the expiration of a timer because the load on the application server decreases below a threshold or as in due to some special need. For example for CALEA interceptions the application server would take back control of the call from the hub device.

There are two different ways a client device can act as the hub i.e. as a server a star connection and a mesh connection. The server may instruct the group to use a star connection or a mesh connection or the client devices in the group may determine which to use. In a star connection the server or client devices can dynamically designate a specific device the hub device to manage the communications among the group as discussed above. The hub device maintains the call registration and is able to setup host i.e. provide processing resources and manage the call. The hub device need not be a member of the call.

In a star connection the registration information of each group member is available to all of the group members including the hub device. Call setup and hosting occurs in the same way as in a server based system except that the hub device is used instead of the server. This model is transparent to the end user i.e. the end user does not know if the call is hosted on a hub device or the server. For CALEA interceptions and the like the hub is removed from the group and the group members are updated with the server s address for call setup and hosting.

At client B B sends a call announcement to client C C and client D D. At client D D acknowledges the call announcement by sending an ACK message to client B B. At client C C acknowledges the call announcement in the same way. At client B B sends a status message to client A A indicating that clients C C and D D have acknowledged the call announcement.

At client B B contacts the other client devices to begin the group call. At client A A transmits media to client B B. The media may be audio video and or opaque data as is typical in a group communication. At client B B forwards the media to clients C C and D D.

As can be seen in the call processing and call hosting is the same as if an application server were processing and hosting the call. Each client device simply has the address of the hub device instead of the server. Any communications that would be sent to the server are instead sent directly to the client device acting as the hub.

In the second way a client device can act as the hub a mesh connection each member of the communication group maintains the registration information for the other members. The client originating a call acts as the initial hub for the call. Specifically the originating client directly pages all the member clients and when the call is setup it sends the voice packets to each of the clients. As with a star connection this model is transparent to the end user i.e. the end user does not know if the call is hosted on a hub device or the server. For CALEA interceptions and the like the server transmits the opaque marker configuration of the client and without the knowledge of the end user if the user is marked the signaling and media stream is also sent to the intercept server.

In the example of client A A wishes to initiate a call among the group members. The call could be a direct call to one of the other client devices or a group call such as a PTT call among a plurality of the client devices. Here it is a group call among all the client devices. Accordingly at client A A sends a call announcement to client B B and client C C. At client B B acknowledges the call announcement by sending an ACK message to client A A. At client C C acknowledges the call announcement in the same way.

At client A A contacts the other client devices to begin the group call. At client A A transmits media to client B B and client C C. The media may be a talk spurt comprising audio video and or opaque data as is typical in a group communication.

Up to this point call processing and call hosting are the same as if an application server were processing and hosting the call. Each client device simply has the address of the hub call originator instead of the server. Any communications that would be sent to the server are instead sent directly to the client device acting as the hub. This changes when other client devices wish to transmit media during the group communication. Since each client has the registration information of all the other clients a client can transmit media directly to the other clients rather than route the media through the hub.

Referring to the user of client C C wishes to transmit media during the group call. Accordingly at client C C transmits the media directly to client A A and client B B rather than routing the media through client A A. Similarly at client B B transmits media directly to client A A and client C C rather than routing the media through client A A.

At the client device receives an assignment to act as the hub for the communications group. As discussed above the client device can receive the assignment from the application server the communication group can determine which client device would be the best hub e.g. based on KCMs of the client devices or the client device may be initiating the call as in a mesh connection .

At the client device receives a call request. The call request may come from another client device in the group or from a user of the hub client device. At the hub client device sets up the call. This includes sending a call announcement to the target s of the call receiving acknowledgment s from the target s etc.

At after the call has been setup the hub device receives a media stream containing call data such as audio video and or opaque data. The hub device may receive the media stream from the client device that initiated the call or the user of the hub client device. At the hub device transmits the media stream to the target s on the call.

At the hub client device transmits status information to the application server. As discussed above these updates can include the UDR and OAM information and result in refreshing the hub assignment timer.

At the application server determines to offload call processing and call hosting to a communications group. The application server can make this determination based on the time of day i.e. peak or off peak the current load on the application server the capability of client devices within the group etc.

At the application server transmits the registration information of the members of the communication group to each member of the group. The server may then assign a hub or the group may determine the hub. The server is informed of the hub assignment and transparently provisions the client devices with the hub s address as the server address. This provisioning may be part of transmitting the registration information to the members.

At this point the hub device takes over call processing and call hosting. At the application server receives periodic updates from the hub. As discussed above these updates can include the UDR and OAM information and result in refreshing the hub assignment timer.

At the application server takes control back from the hub device. Like the determination to offload server functionality to the hub the application server can make this determination based on the time of day i.e. peak or off peak the current load on the application server the capability of client devices within the group the expiration of a timer etc. The application server may also make this determination based on special circumstances such as CALEA requirements.

While the embodiments above have been described primarily with reference to 1x EV DO architecture in CDMA2000 networks GPRS architecture in W CDMA or UMTS networks and or EPS architecture in LTE based networks it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be directed to other types of network architectures and or protocols.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

