---

title: Contextual breadcrumbs during navigation
abstract: A system and method of providing contextual breadcrumbs is disclosed. A current page may be caused to be displayed on a device. Contextual breadcrumbs may be caused to be displayed on the current page. The contextual breadcrumbs may comprise a simplified representation of a first different page. The first different page may be different from the current page. The simplified representation of the first different page may comprise context information regarding a function of the first different page. The context information regarding a function of the first different page may comprise a visual representation of functional options of the first different page. At least one of the contextual breadcrumbs may be configured to enable the user to act upon the functional options of the first different page from the current page.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09411899&OS=09411899&RS=09411899
owner: PayPal, Inc.
number: 09411899
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121221
---
The present application relates generally to the technical field of navigation of pages and in various embodiments to systems and methods of providing visual contextual breadcrumbs during the navigation of pages.

When users navigate through a flow of multiple web pages during a session on a website the users may often become lost as to where they are where they came from and where they are going within the context of the flow of web pages. Such confusion regarding the context of web pages within the flow of web pages may lead to a negative user experience on the website.

The description that follows includes illustrative systems methods techniques instruction sequences and computing machine program products that embody illustrative embodiments. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of various embodiments of the inventive subject matter. It will be evident however to those skilled in the art that embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In general well known instruction instances protocols structures and techniques have not been shown in detail.

The present disclosure describes systems and methods of providing contextual breadcrumbs during the navigation of pages. In some embodiments the pages may be web pages. However it is contemplated that other types of pages are also within the scope of the present disclosure including but not limited to the pages of a software application that are displayed on a device e.g. a software application on a mobile device . The contextual breadcrumbs may comprise context information of pages. The context information may comprise information regarding a function of a page and may be carried forward in a visual form to the next page in a flow of pages during navigation. In some embodiments a minimal and useful part of a page s context may be carried forward. During navigation the user may branch off along one path. The user may then subsequently come back to the same branching page and branch off along a different path. These paths may be represented in the contextual breadcrumbs. Context information from one page in the flow of pages may be carried forward to the next page in the flow of pages. The context information may be accumulated and edited as the user flows through the pages.

In some embodiments the contextual breadcrumbs may be provided in the form of one or more floating widgets. A flow of actions e.g. user actions on an e commerce site may be captured in a widget. Variations in actions may be shown through choices displayed in the widget. In some embodiments an accumulation of actions may be shown through a cascade of widgets that allows for properties of the widgets to be changed at any point in the cascade. The changing of properties of the widgets may be conditioned upon the changes not contradicting or invalidating other widget instances. In some embodiments the properties of a widget may be changed even if the change does contradict or invalidate another widget instance. In some embodiments the widget affected by this contradictory or invalidating change may be visually presented in a form indicating the contradiction or invalidation. In some embodiments the affected widget may be displayed in a distinguishing color to indicate how it is affected. For example the affected widget may be colored red to indicate that the widget is in an error state or an inconsistent state.

In some embodiments a system may comprise at least one processor at least one navigation application and at least one contextual breadcrumb application. The navigation application s which may be executable by the processor s may be configured to cause a current page to be displayed on a device and to cause contextual breadcrumbs to be displayed on the current page. The contextual breadcrumbs may comprise a simplified representation of a first different page. The first different page may be different from the current page. The simplified representation of the first different page may comprise context information regarding a function of the first different page.

In some embodiments a computer implemented method may comprise causing a current page to be displayed on a device and causing contextual breadcrumbs to be displayed on the current page. The contextual breadcrumbs may comprise a simplified representation of a first different page. The first different page may be different from the current page. The simplified representation of the first different page may comprise context information regarding a function of the first different page.

In some embodiments a non transitory machine readable storage device may store a set of instructions that when executed by at least one processor causes the at least one processor to perform operations comprising causing a current page to be displayed on a device and causing contextual breadcrumbs to be displayed on the current page. The contextual breadcrumbs may comprise a simplified representation of a first different page. The first different page may be different from the current page. The simplified representation of the first different page may comprise context information regarding a function of the first different page.

In some embodiments the first different page may be caused to be displayed on the device and a user action on the first different page may be received. In some embodiments the current web page may be caused to be displayed on the device in response to the user action. In some embodiments the first different page may comprise a plurality of functional options with each functional option of the first different page being configured to be acted upon by a user. The user action may comprise a user action on one of the functional options of the first different page. The context information of the first different page may comprise a visual representation of the plurality of functional options of the first different page. In some embodiments the plurality of functional options of the first different page may comprise actionable interface elements. In some embodiments at least one of the contextual breadcrumbs may be configured to enable the user to act upon the plurality of functional options of the first different page from the current page. In some embodiments the contextual breadcrumbs may further comprise a simplified representation of the current page and a visual representation of a flow from the simplified representation of the first different page to the simplified representation of the current page. The simplified representation of the current page may comprise context information regarding a function of the current page. In some embodiments the current page may comprise a plurality of functional options with each functional option of the current page being configured to be acted upon by the user. At least one functional option of the current page may be configured to lead to a second different page in response to being acted upon by the user. The second different page may be different from the current page and the first different page. The context information regarding a function of the current page may comprise a visual representation of the plurality of functional options of the current page. The contextual breadcrumbs may further comprise a flow from current page to the second different page. In some embodiments the contextual breadcrumbs may further comprise context information regarding a function of the second different page. In some embodiments the context information regarding a function of the second different page may comprise a visual representation of the plurality of functional options of the second different page. In some embodiments the current page and the first different page are web pages.

An application programming interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more marketplace applications and payment applications . The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database servers that facilitate access to one or more databases .

The marketplace applications may provide a number of marketplace functions and services to users who access the networked system . The payment applications may likewise provide a number of payment services and functions to users. The payment applications may allow users to accumulate value e.g. in a commercial currency such as the U.S. dollar or a proprietary currency such as points in accounts and then later to redeem the accumulated value for products e.g. goods or services that are made available via the marketplace applications . While the marketplace and payment applications and are shown in to both form part of the networked system it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the payment applications may form part of a payment service that is separate and distinct from the networked system .

Further while the system shown in employs a client server architecture the embodiments are of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The various marketplace and payment applications and could also be implemented as standalone software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The web client accesses the various marketplace and payment applications and via the web interface supported by the web server . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the marketplace and payment applications and via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . The programmatic client may for example be a seller application e.g. the TurboLister application developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. to enable sellers to author and manage listings on the networked system in an off line manner and to perform batch mode communications between the programmatic client and the networked system .

The networked system may provide a number of publishing listing and price setting mechanisms whereby a seller may list or publish information concerning goods or services for sale a buyer can express interest in or indicate a desire to purchase such goods or services and a price can be set for a transaction pertaining to the goods or services. To this end the marketplace and payment applications and are shown to include at least one publication application and one or more auction applications which support auction format listing and price setting mechanisms e.g. English Dutch Vickrey Chinese Double Reverse auctions etc. . The various auction applications may also provide a number of features in support of such auction format listings such as a reserve price feature whereby a seller may specify a reserve price in connection with a listing and a proxy bidding feature whereby a bidder may invoke automated proxy bidding.

A number of fixed price applications support fixed price listing formats e.g. the traditional classified advertisement type listing or a catalogue listing and buyout type listings. Specifically buyout type listings e.g. including the Buy It Now BIN technology developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. may be offered in conjunction with auction format listings and allow a buyer to purchase goods or services which are also being offered for sale via an auction for a fixed price that is typically higher than the starting price of the auction.

Store applications allow a seller to group listings within a virtual store which may be branded and otherwise personalized by and for the seller. Such a virtual store may also offer promotions incentives and features that are specific and personalized to a relevant seller.

Reputation applications allow users who transact utilizing the networked system to establish build and maintain reputations which may be made available and published to potential trading partners. Consider that where for example the networked system supports person to person trading users may otherwise have no history or other reference information whereby the trustworthiness and credibility of potential trading partners may be assessed. The reputation applications allow a user e.g. through feedback provided by other transaction partners to establish a reputation within the networked system over time. Other potential trading partners may then reference such a reputation for the purposes of assessing credibility and trustworthiness.

Personalization applications allow users of the networked system to personalize various aspects of their interactions with the networked system . For example a user may utilizing an appropriate personalization application create a personalized reference page on which information regarding transactions to which the user is or has been a party may be viewed. Further a personalization application may enable a user to personalize listings and other aspects of their interactions with the networked system and other parties.

The networked system may support a number of marketplaces that are customized for example for specific geographic regions. A version of the networked system may be customized for the United Kingdom whereas another version of the networked system may be customized for the United States. Each of these versions may operate as an independent marketplace or may be customized or internationalized presentations of a common underlying marketplace. The networked system may accordingly include a number of internationalization applications that customize information and or the presentation of information by the networked system according to predetermined criteria e.g. geographic demographic or marketplace criteria . For example the internationalization applications may be used to support the customization of information for a number of regional websites that are operated by the networked system and that are accessible via respective web servers .

Navigation of the networked system may be facilitated by one or more navigation applications . For example a search application as an example of a navigation application may enable key word searches of listings published via the networked system . A browse application may allow users to browse various category catalogue or inventory data structures according to which listings may be classified within the networked system . Various other navigation applications may be provided to supplement the search and browsing applications. In some embodiments the navigation application s may be configured to cause a first web page to be displayed on a device receive a user action on the first web page and cause a second web page to be displayed on the device in response to the user action.

In order to make the listings available via the networked system as visually informing and attractive as possible the applications and may include one or more imaging applications which users may utilize to upload images for inclusion within listings. An imaging application also operates to incorporate images within viewed listings. The imaging applications may also support one or more promotional features such as image galleries that are presented to potential buyers. For example sellers may pay an additional fee to have an image included within a gallery of images for promoted items.

Listing creation applications allow sellers to conveniently author listings pertaining to goods or services that they wish to transact via the networked system and listing management applications allow sellers to manage such listings. Specifically where a particular seller has authored and or published a large number of listings the management of such listings may present a challenge. The listing management applications provide a number of features e.g. auto relisting inventory level monitors etc. to assist the seller in managing such listings. One or more post listing management applications also assist sellers with a number of activities that typically occur post listing. For example upon completion of an auction facilitated by one or more auction applications a seller may wish to leave feedback regarding a particular buyer. To this end a post listing management application may provide an interface to one or more reputation applications so as to allow the seller conveniently to provide feedback regarding multiple buyers to the reputation applications .

Dispute resolution applications provide mechanisms whereby disputes arising between transacting parties may be resolved. For example the dispute resolution applications may provide guided procedures whereby the parties are guided through a number of steps in an attempt to settle a dispute. In the event that the dispute cannot be settled via the guided procedures the dispute may be escalated to a third party mediator or arbitrator.

A number of fraud prevention applications implement fraud detection and prevention mechanisms to reduce the occurrence of fraud within the networked system .

Messaging applications are responsible for the generation and delivery of messages to users of the networked system such as for example messages advising users regarding the status of listings at the networked system e.g. providing outbid notices to bidders during an auction process or to providing promotional and merchandising information to users . Respective messaging applications may utilize any one of a number of message delivery networks and platforms to deliver messages to users. For example messaging applications may deliver electronic mail e mail instant message IM Short Message Service SMS text facsimile or voice e.g. Voice over IP VoIP messages via the wired e.g. the Internet Plain Old Telephone Service POTS or wireless e.g. mobile cellular WiFi WiMAX networks.

Merchandising applications support various merchandising functions that are made available to sellers to enable sellers to increase sales via the networked system . The merchandising applications also operate the various merchandising features that may be invoked by sellers and may monitor and track the success of merchandising strategies employed by sellers.

The networked system itself or one or more parties that transact via the networked system may operate loyalty programs that are supported by one or more loyalty promotions applications . For example a buyer may earn loyalty or promotion points for each transaction established and or concluded with a particular seller and be offered a reward for which accumulated loyalty points can be redeemed.

One or more contextual breadcrumb applications may be configured to cause contextual breadcrumbs to be displayed on a page. As previously discussed the page may be web page. However it is contemplated that other types of pages are also within the scope of the present disclosure including but not limited to the pages of a software application that are displayed on a device e.g. a software application on a mobile device . The contextual breadcrumbs may comprise a simplified representation of another page. The simplified representation of the other page may comprise context information regarding a function of the other page. This other page may be a page that has already been displayed or a page that may possibly be subsequently displayed in a flow of pages of which the page currently being displayed is a part. The contextual breadcrumbs may also comprise a simplified representation of the page currently being displayed. The simplified representation of the currently displayed page may comprise context information regarding a function of the currently displayed page. Additional features of the contextual breadcrumbs will be discussed in further detail below.

In some embodiments contextual breadcrumbs may comprise a visual representation of the flow from one previous page to another. For example in some embodiments an arrow or some other connection indicator may be used to visually represent the flow from one previous page to another. In some embodiments this visual representation may be achieved by displaying the arrow between the simplified representation of one previous page and the simplified representation of another previous page .

In some embodiments the simplified representations and may each comprise context information and respectively of the pages they respectively represent. In some embodiments the context information and comprises information regarding a function of the respective page. For example if simplified representation represents a search page previously displayed in a flow of pages and on which a search query may be entered and if simplified representation represents a previously displayed search results page for the entered search query in the flow of pages context information may comprise information indicating the function of the previously displayed search page and even the entered search query and context information may comprise information indicating the function of the search results page. This information regarding the function of the pages for which the simplified representations and respectively represent provides valuable context information to the user.

In some embodiments the context information of a page may comprise a visual representation of one or more functional options of the page. The functional options of a page may comprise actionable interface elements which are elements that a user may act upon. Examples of actionable interface elements include but are not limited to selectable links or widgets textual input elements and non textual input elements. In context information may comprise one functional option Functional Option and context information may comprise two functional options Functional Option and Functional Option . It is contemplated that other configurations are within the scope of the present disclosure. In some embodiments the visual representation of the functional option s may comprise one or more selectable links. For example if a page is a search results page the context information of that page may comprise a visual representation of the selectable search results on that page. It is contemplated that other forms of functional options are within the scope of the present disclosure. In some embodiments a functional option of a previous page may be acted upon by a user on the current page via engagement with the functional option in the visual representation being displayed on the current page. In the search results page example discussed above the user may select e.g. click or tap one of the selectable search results in the contextual breadcrumbs on the current page. This selection of the search result in the contextual breadcrumbs may be treated as the equivalent of the user making the selection directly from the search results page.

Similar to the simplified representations and of the previous pages and the simplified representation of the current page the simplified representation of the alternative page may comprise context information of the alternative page. The context information of the alternative page may comprise any of the features discussed above with respect to the context information and in . The context information of the alternative page may also comprise one or more functional options of the alternative page. The one or more functional options of the current page may also comprise any of the features discussed above with respect to the one or more functional options in . In no functional options are shown in the simplified representation of the alternative page indicating that no functional options are available on the particular alternative page being represented. It is contemplated that some functional options of a page may be represented in the simplified representation of that page while other functional options of the page may not be represented in the simplified representation of that page.

Similar to the simplified representations previously discussed the simplified representations and of the possible future pages may comprise context information and respectively of the possible future pages. The context information and of the possible future pages may comprise any of the features discussed above with respect to the context information previously discussed. The context information and of the possible future pages may also comprise one or more functional options of the possible future pages. The one or more functional options of the possible future pages may also comprise any of the features of the one or more functional options previously discussed. In no functional options are shown in the simplified representation of the first possible future page indicating that no functional options are available on the first possible future page being represented. However in the context information in the simplified representation of the second possible future page is shown as comprising one functional option Functional Option . It is contemplated that some functional options of a page may be represented in the simplified representation of that page while other functional options of the page may not be represented in the simplified representation of that page

It is contemplated that any combination of the features of the contextual breadcrumbs in may be employed. Additionally any number of simplified representations of previous pages current pages alternative pages possible future pages and functional options may be used. Furthermore the contextual breadcrumbs may be configured to enable the user to navigate his or her way to a page by selecting e.g. clicking the simplified representation of that page. In this fashion the user may use the contextual breadcrumbs to load a certain page e.g. the last page the user viewed on the website instead of using the navigation bar on the web browser e.g. clicking the back button .

The flow of multiple pages may be for a single website. illustrates an example embodiment of one page in a flow of pages for a website being displayed in a web browser. In some embodiments the web browser comprises a navigation bar . The navigation bar may comprise a selectable back button to enable a user to go to the previous page and a selectable forward button to enable a user to go the next page as well as an address bar to enable a user to enter and go to a web address. It is contemplated that the navigation bar may comprise other functional and non functional components as well.

In some embodiments the single website may be an e commerce site. However it is contemplated that other types of websites are within the scope of the present disclosure. In some embodiments the page may be a home page of the website. The page may comprise a body . The body may comprise a variety of content including but not limited to a website or company logo categories that may be browsed featured deals or offers general information regarding the website and functions that may be performed on the website advertisements featured item listings with image titles and corresponding images of the images and basic content that may be displayed on every page of the site. Some of the content in the body may be selectable and some of the content in the body may not be selectable. Page may also comprise a search field for entering one or more query terms and a selectable search button to cause a search on the one or more entered query terms when activated by a user.

Page may comprise a contextual breadcrumbs section for displaying contextual breadcrumbs. The contextual breadcrumbs section may comprise a simplified representation of page in . The simplified representation may comprise context information regarding a function of the page . For example the context information may comprise an identification of page as a page on which a search was performed which may be represented by the label Search and a visual representation of the search box with the query terms for which the search was performed e.g. cell phone .

In the contextual breadcrumbs section of page a simplified representation of page may be added. In some embodiments a visual representation of the flow from page to page may be represented in the contextual breadcrumbs. For example an arrow or some other connection indicator may be used to show this flow. The simplified representation may comprise context information regarding a function of the page . For example the context information may comprise an identification of page as a page on which search results were provided which may be represented by the label Search Results and a visual representation of the search results . In some embodiments the context information may comprise a visual representation of a selection or action of the user. For example the visual representation of the search results may comprise an indication of which search result the user selected e.g. KR9541 . This indication may be provided in the form of the selected search result being underlined. However it is contemplated that other forms of visually indicating a user action are within the scope of the present disclosure.

In the contextual breadcrumbs section of page a simplified representation of page may be added. In some embodiments a visual representation of the flow from page to page may be represented in the contextual breadcrumbs. For example an arrow or some other connection indicator may be used to show this flow. The simplified representation may comprise context information regarding a function of the page . For example the context information may comprise an identification of page as a page on which an item listing was viewed which may be represented by the label View . In some embodiments the context information may comprise a simplified version some of the details of the viewed item listing. In some embodiments these details may comprise the title of the item listing e.g. KR9541 the price of the item e.g. 40.00 and the image of the item. In some embodiments the context information may comprise a visual representation of a selection or action of the user. For example in the context information in simplified representation may comprise a visual representation of the quantity of the item that the user added to the shopping cart e.g. 1 .

In some embodiments the contextual breadcrumbs may be configured to enable a user to act upon functional options that are visually represented in the simplified representation of a page. For example although the shopping cart page is being displayed in the user may select one of the search results visually represented in the simplified representation of the search result page. As a result of this user action e.g. clicking on a functional option e.g. a selectable link for an item listing in the search results in the simplified representation the selected functional option may be performed. In this example if the user clicks on PX7328 in the simplified representation of the item listing page for the corresponding item listing may be displayed.

In the contextual breadcrumbs section of page a simplified representation of page may be added. In some embodiments a visual representation of the flow from page to page may be represented in the contextual breadcrumbs. For example an arrow or some other connection indicator may be used to show this flow. The simplified representation may comprise context information regarding a function of the page . For example the context information may comprise an identification of page as a shopping cart page which may be represented by the label Cart . In some embodiments the context information may comprise a simplified version some of the details of the items in the shopping cart. In some embodiments these details may comprise the title of the item listing e.g. KR9541 and the price of the item e.g. 40.00 . The context information in simplified representation may also comprise a visual representation of the quantity of the item in shopping cart e.g. 1 . Additionally the context information may comprise a visual representation of the shipping option e.g. Economy Shipping for the item in the shopping cart. As previously discussed in some embodiments the contextual breadcrumbs may be configured to enable a user to act upon functional options that are visually represented in the simplified representation of a page. For example in some embodiments the shipping option may be changed using a selectable mechanism e.g. a drop down menu in the simplified representation of the shopping cart page rather than going to the shopping cart page and changing the shipping option from there. However in some embodiments the contextual breadcrumbs may be configured to cause the corresponding web page of a simplified representation to be displayed in response to a selection e.g. clicking of the simplified representation and the user may then make a change to a functional option of a page from the actual page.

In the contextual breadcrumbs section of page in a simplified representation of page may be added. In some embodiments a visual representation of the flow from page to page may be represented in the contextual breadcrumbs. For example an arrow or some other connection indicator may be used to show this flow. The simplified representation may comprise context information regarding a function of the page . For example the context information may comprise an identification of page as a page on which an item listing was viewed which may be represented by the label View . In some embodiments the context information may comprise a simplified version of some of the details of the viewed item listing. In some embodiments these details may comprise the title of the item listing e.g. PX7328 the price of the item e.g. 60.00 and the image of the item. In some embodiments the context information may comprise a visual representation of a selection or action of the user. For example in the context information in simplified representation may comprise a visual representation of the quantity of the item that the user added to the shopping cart e.g. 1 .

As previously discussed in some embodiments the contextual breadcrumbs may be configured to enable a user to act upon functional options that are visually represented in the simplified representation of a page. For example the user may change one of the functional options visually represented in the simplified representation of the shopping cart. As a result of this user action on a functional option in the simplified representation the selected functional option may be performed. In this example the user may change the shipping option for item KR9541 from Economy Shipping to Expedited Shipping by using the selectable mechanism . As a result of the user changing the shipping option in the simplified representation a corresponding change may be made to the shipping option in the shopping cart.

In some embodiments the changing of properties for a functional element in a simplified representation may be conditioned upon the change not contradicting or invalidating any other functional element of a simplified representation. In some embodiments a functional element may be changed even if the change does contradict or invalidate another functional element of a simplified representation. In some embodiments the simplified representation of the functional element that is affected by this contradictory or invalidating change may be visually presented in a form indicating the contradiction or invalidation. In some embodiments the affected simplified representation or the affected functional element may be displayed in a distinguishing color to indicate how it is affected. For example the affected simplified representation may be colored red to indicate that one of its functional elements is in an error state or an inconsistent state. It is contemplated that other visual indications of a contradictory or invalidating action state may be employed as well.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the network of and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. APIs .

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a FPGA or an ASIC .

A computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that both hardware and software architectures merit consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation or cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the static memory .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present embodiments or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and compact disc read only memory CD ROM and digital versatile disc or digital video disc read only memory DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a LAN a WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

