---

title: System and method for tracking vehicle mileage with mobile devices
abstract: Disclosed is a system for tracking vehicle locations and accumulating mileage for said vehicles by detecting intervals when said vehicles are in proximity to mobile devices and utilizing the location aware sensors of said mobile devices to determine vehicle locations. Proximity between mobile devices and vehicles is determined by short range data communication identification. Multiple vehicles and drivers may thus be tracked for trip, interval, or overall mileage traveled.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08655544&OS=08655544&RS=08655544
owner: Kaarya LLC
number: 08655544
owner_city: Torrance
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120202
---
The present invention is generally in the field of virtual vehicle sensor systems and vehicle information systems. Specifically the invention is within the field of the use of mobile devices such as smart phones for vehicle telematics applications.

Vehicle mileage is tracked and recorded for a variety of functions. In general vehicle mileage is a measure of the cost associated with operating the vehicle as well as a measure of the wear to a vehicle. Mileage may be relevant for individual vehicle trips for longer term intervals of mileage or time for accumulated mileage by individual drivers and for the overall accumulated of the vehicle.

Vehicle mileage intervals are commonly used as the primary means for determining scheduled maintenance of vehicles. Manufacturers and car dealers specify recommended or warranty required maintenance intervals which are typically based on the distance the vehicle has been driven sometimes in conjunction with calendar intervals. For example recommending an oil change every 7 500 miles or 6 months. A few automobile manufacturers include on board computer devices for notifying the driver that scheduled service is recommended but most do not. Thus scheduled service is easily missed particularly if the driver is unaware of the schedule or when the last service was performed. Additionally service interval information is generally unavailable to interested and authorized third parties such as dealerships or other repair facilities. With such information available these third parties would have an opportunity to offer timely premium and discounted services directly and tailored to the individual needs of the vehicle owners.

Individual vehicle trips driven by a vehicle are commonly logged as a measure of cost. Such cost may then be assigned to an individual or purpose as an expense. Without a data connection to the vehicle this is a tedious process at best. A vehicle owner may wish to track the mileage driven by multiple drivers of a single vehicle. A useful extension of this capability is to track the driven mileage on multiple vehicles and by one or more drivers such as in a family a set of company vehicles or in a municipal vehicle fleet. The collection and tracking of such vehicle information are well known vehicle telematics applications.

Solutions to mileage tracking and corresponding telematics applications invariably utilize some combination of vehicle sensors and aftermarket installed hardware in the vehicle. For example a number of systems have been proposed or are on the market such as in Lightner U.S. Pat. No. 6 636 790 which utilize on board diagnostic OBD II data available with vehicles manufactured after 1996. For such aftermarket systems the installed device connects into the vehicle OBD II port and must reliably accept the input in a considerable number of different data protocols and from proprietary data feeds. An additional difficulty with these devices is interference with the diagnostic process as service technicians normally use the OBD II port for scanning the car s computer systems for fault codes which help in the diagnosis of the vehicle problems. This typically requires that the aftermarket add on device be uninstalled and the dealer s scan tool attached to the port. After the procedure is done the device has to be installed and the setup routine must be performed and the device must be re configured. Additionally due to the security sensitive nature of the information including potential modification of the data if access is available distance traveled is generally not a record available through the OBD II data connection. The accumulated mileage value must be estimated or inferred from other available sensor data which may be impossible without a reference value.

Other approaches to location tracking and accumulated mileage include the use of a location aware sensor in a device such as in a GPS based navigation system see Villevielle 55433802. Similar systems are available for vehicle navigation tracking and personal sports navigation. As applied to a vehicle system however these systems have significant shortcomings including no capability to reliably couple the use of the device in conjunction with a particular vehicle no capability to integrate with other drivers in records for a single vehicle and no capability to identify and segregate mileage for a single driver among multiple vehicles.

Currently no system is available for accumulating recording and communicating the mileage of one or more vehicles by one or more mobile devices automatically utilizing only the sensor systems available to the mobile device and minimal user input.

In accordance with the invention the problem of logging vehicle mileage with a mobile device or mobile phone is solved by detecting the proximity of an identified vehicle by a mobile device or mobile phone and logging mileage calculated by the phone s location aware system while the vehicle remains in proximity to the device. Proximity of the vehicle to the mobile device or mobile phone is determined by the detection of a predetermined short range data communication device identification connected to the vehicle. The invention is extended to a system of multiple vehicles and multiple mobile devices by communicating compiled mileage data from individual devices to a central repository and then aggregating data assigned to vehicles. Thus without any data connection to vehicle sensors the present invention provides the capability for tracking the distance s traveled by one or more vehicles each driven by one or more drivers.

It is an object of the present invention to log or track accrued vehicle mileage for vehicle owners or drivers without utilizing a data connection to the vehicle and only sensor systems available on the driver s or operator s mobile phone.

It is an object of the present invention to utilize a mobile telephone equipped with a location aware system such as GPS and wireless short range data system such as Bluetooth to automatically distinguish motion associated with a vehicle and driver and accrue the logged distance traveled by the vehicle.

It is an object of the present invention to utilize a mobile telephone equipped with a wireless short range data system such as Bluetooth to determine proximity to a specific vehicle equipped with an on board wireless short range data system compatible with the system available on such mobile phone.

It is an object of the present invention to perform such proximity detection between the mobile phone and the vehicle by using the mobile phone to search for or detect any nearby wireless devices with identification such as MAC addressing which matches one or more device identifications registered by the mobile phone.

It is an object of the present invention to monitor vehicle location utilizing a mobile phone location awareness system and record a log of accrued distance traveled which has been filtered for incidental motion of the phone while in proximity of the vehicle.

It is an object of the present invention to monitor mileage driven for a plurality of vehicles driven by a plurality of drivers by correlating driver mobile phones with vehicle motion while in proximity to corresponding mobile phones having predetermined identifying information regarding each vehicle.

It is an object of the present invention to utilize a remote data hub for the communication of logged vehicle mileage data from one or more mobile phones correlated to one or more specified vehicles.

It is an object of the present invention to utilize a short range wireless data communication technology including these example currently available technologies Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC Radio Frequency Identification RFID 802.11 Wifi ZigBee 802.15.4 or wireless USB WUSB as proximity detection method by matching the identification of nearby devices such as by the Media Access Control address MAC address against a list of stored identified devices.

As shown in the system and method of the most simple embodiment of the invention is formed by mobile phone equipped with both a short range data communication system shown in this embodiment as Bluetooth and a location aware system GPS in the US and a vehicle with a matching on board short range data connection capability and . Such on board system could be any number of available systems including an original equipment manufacturer OEM installed hands free audio system an after market hands free device or something as simple as Bluetooth key or luggage finder which could be left in the vehicle to operate as the vehicle proximity beacon.

The location aware system embedded within the phone may utilize any available wireless location awareness system including but not limited to GPS GNSS GLONASS BD2 cellular tower triangulation or Wi Fi triangulation. This described embodiment of the invention utilizes the GPS system which has been mandated as a component of mobile phones in the United States by the FCC since 2005.

GPS or the Global Positioning System consists of a system of global satellites which continuously transmit very precise time signals via radio frequency broadcasts directed to the earth surface. Devices utilizing GPS for location awareness infer the latitude longitude time and elevation of the receiving device based on the differential between the timing of received GPS satellite broadcast signals. These 4 input parameters latitude longitude elevation and time are the sensors utilized by the present invention for determining the distance traveled. Although in theory GPS systems are capable of absolute accuracy in practice GPS systems are susceptible to multiple sources of error including error and noise introduced from the ionosphere troposphere measurement ephemeris data clock drift and multi path error. Of concern to the present invention is the potential for the introduction accumulating positional error which the GPS system is stationary. One solution to the mitigation or reduction in GPS error is the utilization of system augmentation. GPS augmentation systems currently include Wide Area Augmentation System WAAS European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service EGNOS Differential GPS Inertial Navigation Systems INS and Assisted GPS. Current GPS systems not utilizing augmentation have been reported to have a mean signal error for a stationary device of approximately a radius of 6.5 meters for 95 percent of the location samples. An accumulation of several miles per day is possible if the sampling rate is high enough and a mobile phone remains in the vehicle for extended periods of time. Methods for addressing this problem are discussed below and addressed in different embodiments of the present invention.

A number of systems are available for developers to access the location based service capability of a mobile phone through and software development kit SDK and application programming interface API . On an embodiment of the invention which utilizes the mobile phone Android OS an API is available known as the LocationManager for accessing the location aware system of the phone. See http developer.android.com reference android location LocationManager.html.

Short range wireless data provides a bidirectional means for transferring data over distance as short as a few inches of a hundred yards depending on the technology used. Available short range wireless technologies which could be utilized by the present invention include Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC Radio Frequency Identification RFID 802.11 Wifi ZigBee 802.15.4 and wireless USB WUSB . The preferred embodiment for the present invention incorporates as its short range wireless data system is Bluetooth which has an effective range of 1 meter 10 meters or 100 meters depending on the power class configuration of the device. The majority of Bluetooth capable smart phones are Class 2 devices which gives them a typical range of 30 feet.

Smartphone operating systems generally provide one of more API s for accessing the embedded short range data wireless technology available by the phone. In the preferred embodiment which uses Bluetooth one embodiment of the system includes smartphones which use the Android operating system OS . The Android smartphone OS offers a number of API s in its android.bluetooth package which provide access to Bluetooth functionality. See http developer.android.com guide topics wireless bluetooth.html.

In an embodiment of the current invention an application on the smartphone periodically turns on Bluetooth scanning for the MAC address of a Bluetooth device onboard the target vehicle A. In an embodiment of the invention which utiltizes the Android operating system and android.bluetooth the system call getremoteDevice performs this functionality. A scan for remote devices to discover a device the specified MAC address indicates that the device and vehicle are within the communication range and thus proximity to the vehicle. Note that this aspect of the invention does not require the smartphone to actually form a bi directional paired data connection with the vehicle s on board system. This aspect of the invention is particularly useful in the invention embodiment configuration which includes multiple users and multiple vehicles. Devices utilizing the on board OBDII port are incapable of segregating the mileage and driving behavior of individual drivers of a single vehicle. This capability of the present invention has direct potential benefits for expense reporting fleet tracking and insurance providers. These capabilities are provided by the embodiment depicted in and as described below.

Next the system begins its periodic scan mode for detecting proximity of the phone to the vehicle by listening for the registered MAC address of the vehicle . If no registered MAC addresses are found the system waits for a configurable fixed time before rescanning for nearby registered vehicles. By reducing the periodic scan rate the Bluetooth system conserves data bandwidth and power.

If the short range wireless data system detects a specified MAC address regardless of whether the device has been configured to pair with the phone the phone begins to log calculated distance traveled by summing the point to point distances between GPS cycles . In alternate embodiments of the invention the system scans for the vehicle Bluetooth MAC address once ever GPS cycle or once after a predetermined plurarity of GPS sampling cycles . Bluetooth scanning frequency may alternately be modified by dynamically changing the GPS sampling frequency during operation.

As discussed above GPS systems have a number of error sources which could accumulate over time as logged mileage if the mobile phone remains in proximity to the vehicle for extended periods of stationary time. This accumulated error if significant for a particular user of the present invention is correctable or lessened in several different embodiments.

An embodiment of the invention where such a dynamic GPS sampling method is chosen as proportional to the detected motion of the vehicle between scans accumulated error during prolonged periods of proximity of the phone and vehicle while the vehicle is stationary. Once the phone and vehicle proximity is determined to have ended the system returns to the periodic scan mode .

In this embodiment of the invention from vehicle mileage is accrued by an application on the mobile phone which can be queried by the user directly. In an alternate embodiment of the invention the accrued mileage data may be passed to other applications on the mobile phone . In another embodiment of the invention the mileage data may be passed by wireless data connection to a central system repository .

In an optional embodiment of the present invention allows the user to reconcile the mobile accumulated mileage with the on board vehicle odometer on a periodic basis by manual correction of the mileage log in . Manual reconciliation available to both confirm the accuracy of the operation of the invention as well as adjust for accumulated errors from the location awareness system.

Logging mileage is not the only available use for point to point GPS vehicle information. Numerous other aspects of the vehicle motion can be utilized to characterize the vehicle movement for purposes of modifying the period of scheduled maintenance. If such information is desired for analysis it can be logged in and available for upload to the data hub user or other application periodically by query or other data connection .

The aspect of the invention for GPS signal and error correction are depicted in step . First GPS signal filtering is shown in step where any one of suitable published signal filtering methods or algorithms may be employed such as Kalman filtering or a Monte Carlo filtering as a method of improving signal stability and accuracy. In step if available one of available GPS augmentation systems is implemented to improve the GPS system accuracy. Currently the most widely used such system available for consumer GPS products is the WAAS system which was originally implemented to improve airline location and navigation accuracy by the FAA. Although WAAS systems are not generally utilized in mobile phones future adoption is likely as WAAS dramatically increases accuracy. Alternate embodiments for the inclusion of GPS augmentation include assisted GPS and differential GPS also implemented in step . Corresponding to steps and in the steps for calculating and reporting the accrued mileage is performed in steps and .

In vehicle proximity detection between registered mobile phones A and B and predetermined MAC addresses corresponding to vehicles A and B is depicted by the dashed lines between the mobile phones and vehicles exemplified by the proximity detection between Driver A and Vehicle A. In this embodiment of the invention each mobile phone s accrued mileage is periodically uploaded to the central data hub for compiling mileage for each vehicle accrued by multiple driver s who drive each vehicle. Independent driver behavior is available for reporting and to other applications in other embodiments of the present invention.

The implications of the present invention in the numerous potential configurations and embodiments are far reaching. Since the records include both driver and vehicle data detailed reporting of data is available for mileage corresponding to each driver optional details of driver behavior as well as overall for each vehicle. Such detailed information is not possible by utilizing on board vehicle sensors as is ubiquitous prior efforts to address this problem. The potential applications for such detailed reporting and simplicity of implementation are numerous including vehicle tracking driver tracking driver expense reporting and mileage records for tax reporting and maintenance scheduling.

It will be understood that the particular embodiments described in detail herein are illustrative of the invention and that many other embodiments are applicable. The principal features highlighted herein may be employed in many embodiments within the scope of the claims.

