---

title: Method and apparatus to reorder search results in view of identified information of interest
abstract: Various embodiments described herein provide systems, methods, and software to automatically reorder search results presented to users based on information specific to the user or the computing environment of the user. Some embodiments include a data store holding user or environment specific data that is used to identify search results that are more likely to be relevant to the user. These and other embodiments are described in greater detail herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08812470&OS=08812470&RS=08812470
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 08812470
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120518
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 771 883 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS TO REORDER SEARCH RESULTS IN VIEW OF IDENTIFIED INFORMATION OF INTEREST filed Jun. 29 2007 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 195 660 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Searching for data using online searching tools often yields irrelevant results. Such search results are often irrelevant because searching utilities provide results based on what the public as a whole may be looking for rather than the specific user. Further a user may not know how to search for the desired information. For example a user searching for information on setting up a wireless router may not know or have much information about the router being set up. Thus when such a user submits a query such as wireless router setup the user may receive search results about brand X routers when the user has a brand Y router.

Various embodiments described herein provide systems methods and software to automatically reorder search results presented to users based on information specific to the user or the computing environment of the user. Some embodiments include a data store holding user or environment specific data that is used to identify search results that are more likely to be relevant to the user. These and other embodiments are described in greater detail herein.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the inventive subject matter may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice them and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the inventive subject matter. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to individually and or collectively herein by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed.

The following description is therefore not to be taken in a limited sense and the scope of the inventive subject matter is defined by the appended claims.

The functions or algorithms described herein are implemented in hardware software or a combination of software and hardware in one embodiment. The software comprises computer executable instructions stored on computer readable media such as memory or other type of storage devices. Further described functions may correspond to modules which may be software hardware firmware or any combination thereof. Multiple functions are performed in one or more modules as desired and the embodiments described are merely examples. The software is executed on a digital signal processor ASIC microprocessor or other type of processor operating on a system such as a personal computer server a router or other device capable of processing data including network interconnection devices.

Some embodiments implement the functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the exemplary process flow is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

The network connections of the various network capable devices may be direct connections as illustrated by the host platform media center personal multimedia device personal digital assistant and printer in Room 1 or indirect connections using another network capable device as illustrated in Room 2 by the host platform connecting the personal multimedia device personal digital assistant the video camera the printer and the camera to the home network . The digital home network may include both wired and wireless connections to the different home network devices as seen.

For illustrative purpose home networks may have a number of complex devices e.g. in which problems arise and induce the consumer to seek technical support. For example home network may contain a media center in which the Compact Disk Player will not stream certain file formats. More specifically the consumer may attempt to access information regarding this issue via the internet with a query similar to what file formats can my CD Player stream 

In accordance with one embodiment digital devices or appliances incorporating the processor host platform described in greater detail in may be configured to perform the task of modifying the consumer query with device specific information previously or presently obtained by the processor host platform. The modified query may then be submitted to the internet or other technical support service. In the above illustration the query may be expanded to what file formats can my Philips MC i250 CD Player stream In various other embodiments the host platform may be configured to perform a task of modifying a consumer query an answer to a consumer query or both.

In one embodiment the network interface may be configured to monitor the network for packets of device information and descriptions of devices within the network e.g. device specific information. In various embodiments the network interface may monitor the network for device specific information from a dedicated virtual partition on the host platform. In this manner the monitoring and obtaining of device specific information may be accomplished with resources not allocated to the main partition and accordingly if the main partition is busy or hibernating the virtual partition is able to continue monitoring for new devices. In the alternative the network interface may monitor the network for device specific information from a main partition along side other software components .

In one embodiment system memory may store a plurality of programming instructions designed to enable the chipset and the processors to receive a query pertaining to a query subject and modify the query or an answer to the query based at least in part on information related to the query subject. In these and other embodiments the system memory may store a plurality of programming instructions designed to enable the chipset and processors to receive query results in a first order and reorder the results as a function of a scoring algorithm that takes into account stored data about devices present on the network.

The plurality of processors are the primary resources allocated to the respective partitions and may include any variety of processors known in the art including in one embodiment processors having a plurality of processing cores for example Intel Pentium D Processors Intel Core 2 Extreme and Intel Core 2 Duo. The processors may be adapted to function within generic computer systems as well as Intel ViiV Embedded Personal Computers ViiV EPC . The plurality of processors may comprise an integrated circuit IC such as a semiconductor integrated circuit chip. In the embodiment illustrated in the plurality of processors may include a plurality of central processing units CPUs . Additional or fewer processors may be used in various embodiments. The plurality of processors may be logically and or physically divided into a plurality of partitions. For example in the illustrated embodiment the processors are divided into a main partition and a virtual partition .

The at least one primary host processor associated with the main partition is adapted to execute the one or more software components and the operating system which may include for example a general operating system such as Windows operating systems Linux etc. The at least one processor associated with virtual partition may be adapted to perform the monitoring and obtaining of device specific information from devices within or added to the network.

System memory may include semiconductor firmware memory programmable memory non volatile memory read only memory electrically programmable memory random access memory flash memory which may include for example NAND or NOR type memory structures magnetic disk memory and or optical disk memory. Either additionally or alternatively memory may comprise other and or later developed types of computer readable memory. Machines readable firmware program instructions may be stored in memory . As described above the instructions may be accessed and executed by the main partition and or the virtual partition of host processor .

In one embodiment network devices transmit device specific information to a transmit receive module via a network interface . It is contemplated that the transmit receive module may be implemented in a hardware configuration or a software configuration. In one embodiment the transmit receive module may contain a packet monitor . The packet monitor may be integrated into a network interface card not shown run in a dedicated virtual partition on a computer system or run in a main partition along side other applications. In various embodiments the packet monitor extracts or receives device information from a network device . In one embodiment the packet monitor monitors for Universal Plug and Play advertisements and device descriptions and maintains a time ordered log of the device information it receives. This log allows for query modification as discussed below when the network device is not present not powered on or incapable of transmitting device specific information .

In one embodiment the packet monitor transmits the time ordered log from the transmit receive module to a configuration extractor located in a processing module . The processing module may be implemented in a hardware configuration or a software configuration similar to the transmit receive module . The configuration extractor takes the device specific information and creates word groups that are correlated with each other. In one embodiment the word groups are stored in a configuration table . The configuration table may then be applied in various embodiments to a query for the purpose of modification as will be discussed more below.

In various embodiments a query may be entered by either of a user interface or a generator . The user interface may be any one of a keyboard a mouse a computer screen a touch pad or any other user device capable of submitting a query. The generator may be implemented in a hardware or software configuration.

In one embodiment the generator automatically generates a query upon an occurrence of a network device being detected or a problem occurring within the network. The query may pertain to common issues regarding the network device or specific issues relating to the network device or the network in general. Similarly in other embodiments the user may generate a query upon an occurrence of a problem with a device or a network.

In various embodiments the query initiated by the generator or the user interface is received by the transmit receive module and transmitted to at least one of a configuration based query expander in a processing module or a query processing system . In one embodiment the transmit receive module sends the query as received directly to a query processing system . The query processing system may be any of an internet search engine a telephony system an online chat room or any other software or hardware configuration capable of receiving queries. In response to receiving the query the query processing system returns query answers . In various embodiments the configuration extractor may then apply the configuration table to the query answers to perform the post processing function of ranking the answers resulting in ranked answers . The ranked answers may provide a fast and viable solution to a user s query or in one embodiment provide a list of the most likely causes of a problem or a list of the most common problems associated with a device should the generator initiate the query.

In another embodiment the query is received by the transmit receive module and transmitted to a configuration based query expander located in a processing module . Once a query is received the configuration based query expander may apply the configuration table from the configuration extractor in order to concatenate or expand the query with synonymous terms from the table . The expansion may include simply adding terms deleting terms while adding others or simply concatenating terms. In one embodiment the configuration based query expander then sends the modified query to a query processing system which returns query answers . The process of modifying the query prior to submitting it to a query processing system or pre processing may create a more well framed query which returns more relevant answers.

In yet another embodiment pre processing on a query is performed and returns query answers . The query answers may then undergo a similar post processing procedure to that describe above in which the configuration extractor applies the configuration table to the pre processed query answers returning ranked answers . In such a manner the system may incorporate pre processing and post processing only post processing or only pre processing. The post processing in such embodiments may include re ranking of at least some of the answers such as Internet search engine query results. Further detail of such embodiments is described in greater detail below.

Although most embodiments described herein pertain to a home network environment and use of the configuration extractor to build a configuration table other embodiments are contemplated. For example some embodiments may include one or both of pre and post processing based on virtually any type of information of interest. That information may be represented in a table as words and the table may be used to expand searches or make them more precise. The information may also be used to re rank search results.

The method further includes receiving query results in a first order in response to a user submitted query and scoring each of at least a subset of the query results as a function of the data of interest . Based on the scoring the method also includes reordering the query results into a second order as a function of the scoring . The result is search results that are received based on a specific query but are sorted based on information of interest to the query submitter.

In some embodiments the scoring may include retrieving at least a subset of web pages represented in Internet search engine query results and identifying and counting unique features represented in the data of interest that occur in each of the retrieved web pages. The scoring may also include counting occurrences of each unique feature in each of the retrieved web pages scoring each of at least the subset of the query results as a function of a website from which the respective webpage is retrieved. The score may include one or more of these and other scoring mechanisms which may be considered individually or in sum.

Scoring each of at least the subset of the query results based on data of interest may also include scoring each of a plurality of features of a retrieved web page weighting at least one feature and summing each of the features including weighted features to determine a score for each retrieved webpage.

The re ranking or reordering of search results may be considered in a more formal manner in view of contextual ranking. For a given user s query qwith the corresponding context C output of the configuration extractor for each of the first P web pages preturned by the search engine its new rank DR p as for Device Rank may be calculated as follows.

Intuitively one can see that the higher the value of this sum the more relevant is the page pto the query and context this sum is thus an example of a score for page p. The parameters ware the weights assigned to each feature. However the original rank of the search engine may be used SER p in some embodiments. The original rank may be added to the score S p as an additional feature multiplied by a factor wwhich determines how much weight to give to the original search engine used. In such embodiments the final score may be represented as 

Given these scores DRS p the web pages pmay be ranked by obtaining the Device Rank DR p rank 1 being the rank of the page with the highest score and so on . The ranked pages may then be presented via a web browsing application accordingly to DR p . In some embodiments a better ranking DR p may be made through the parameters W w w . . . w therefore reducing the problem to a machine learning task. The weighting may be resolved via a machine learning technique such as logistic regression or a variant thereof. The learning of these parameters w allows finding of better rankings than the original search engine used because it incorporates the context of the queries and user specific information.

It is emphasized that the Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an Abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.

In the foregoing Detailed Description various features are grouped together in a single embodiment to streamline the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments of the inventive subject matter require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

It will be readily understood to those skilled in the art that various other changes in the details material and arrangements of the parts and method stages which have been described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the inventive subject matter may be made without departing from the principles and scope of the inventive subject matter as expressed in the subjoined claims.

