---

title: Mobile device data archiving
abstract: Mobile devices such as cell phones, “smart” phones, personal data assistants (PDA's) and the like are equipped for accessing and storing all types of media, including movies, music, software applications, as well as copious amounts of associated data. Accordingly, a need exists for methods, apparatuses and computer program products that assist mobile device users in archiving data, configuring the data, and restoring the data to the same device, or a new mobile device running the same or different operating system. Embodiments of the claimed invention address the above needs and/or achieve other advantages by providing systems for archiving data on a mobile electronic device on a plurality of data storage media, and by providing similar means of restoring the archived data to the same or different mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08751457&OS=08751457&RS=08751457
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08751457
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120101
---
The present invention relates to mobile electronic computing devices and networks and more particularly to a system and method to periodically archive device data to local or remotely connected storage media.

Mobile electronic devices are now commonly used for multiple computing functions in addition to telecommunications. Mobile devices such as cell phones smart phones personal data assistants PDA s and the like are equipped for accessing and storing all types of media including movies music software applications as well as copious amounts of associated data. As mobile devices are increasingly integrated into the daily life of the typical user the loss of the device due to misappropriation or any other type of unintentional loss can cause a great deal of inconvenience loss of time and productivity and at times cause the permanent loss of irreplaceable data such as photographs notes and the like. Some mobile device users possess a limited level of technical savvy and therefore prefer or require a simple easy to use interface in which data can be archived and restored in a few simple steps. Other technically sophisticated users desire precise control over what data is archived where the data is archived and how often backups should be scheduled. Additionally when mobile electronic devices are replaced they are often replaced with a different model which may run a dissimilar operating system from the device being replaced. Accordingly a need exists for methods apparatuses and computer program products that assist mobile device users in archiving data configuring the data and restoring the data to a new mobile device running the same or different operating system.

Storage media has transcended the magnetic disks of the past and now includes numerous methods of secondary storage such as internal hard disks on a personal computer SD cards external disk drives remote computer storage and cloud storage using the internet or other networks. The data storage capacity of mobile devices increases with every iteration of new products. A need is therefore created for data archiving that can accommodate the large volumes of data and archiving that provides flexible use of a variety of media.

A need exists for methods and apparatuses that allow users of mobile electronic devices to periodically back up mobile device data to local or remote data storage media using either a one click user interface or a sophisticated user interface that allows detailed control over archiving functions. Furthermore a need exists for intentional one time backups for mobile devices as well as regular and periodic backups that run automatically without further user intervention. Similarly restore functions are needed that provide varying levels of control for data restoration.

In general embodiments of the claimed invention address the above needs and or achieve other advantages by providing apparatuses e.g. a system computer program product and or other devices and methods for archiving data on a mobile electronic device on a plurality of data storage media and by providing similar means of restoring the archived data to the same or different mobile device.

The following presents a simplified summary of the disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not an extensive or exhaustive overview of the invention. It is not intended to identify key or critical elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. The following summary merely presents some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description provided below.

Embodiments of the invention are generally directed to methods and apparatuses for archiving data residing on an electronic mobile device i.e. mobile phone smartphone personal data assistant PDA handheld computer IPod IPad handheld device pocket PC etc. . Methods and apparatuses are provided for restoring the archived data to the same mobile device or a mobile device dissimilar from the device in which the data was archived. Computer executable code used on the mobile device provides simple and intuitive means for a user to both archive and restore resident data. The application provides one click backups as well as a customizable interface. The interface provides a user with precise control over which data device settings multimedia applications applications data general data etc. will be archived. Restoration of archived data is accomplished by at least two ways 1 By executing the code on the mobile device and 2 by executing the code remotely from a host device such as a personal computer operatively connected through a network such as the internet.

Archiving the resident data on a mobile device includes storing along with the archived data computer executable code that restores the data to a device operatively connected to the storage media. When executed the code provides a written message to the user indicating steps for the user to accomplish to complete the restoration in addition to the steps automatically accomplished by the archiving system. The computer executable code works by executing the code on the restored mobile device or on a host device which is operatively connected to the restored device.

Restoration of archived device data applications and settings that formerly resided on the same mobile device does not require reconfiguration. However if the operating system of the new device on which the restored data will be transferred is different or incompatible with the operating system of the archiving device some or all of the transferred restored data is configured for compatibility with the new device. In such an embodiment the operating system of both the archiving mobile device and the new device is detected and compared. In cases of incompatibility restoration data is automatically reconfigured for use with the receiving operating system.

The claimed invention is generally described in two main functions archiving backing up saving etc. and restoring saving from the archive media back to the mobile device . Embodiments of the claimed invention provide a method for archiving information residing on a mobile device of a user the method comprising a identifying using a processing device a storage medium external to the mobile device for archiving information residing on the mobile device b identifying using a processing device information residing on the mobile device c selecting some or all the identified information to archive d archiving the selected information and instructions for storing the selected information to the identified storage medium by transmitting the information and instructions and e recording on the mobile device first computer executable program code configured to when executed restore the archived information from the storage medium to the mobile device.

The restoration function generally works by a executing the program code on the mobile device to restore the archived information from the storage medium to the mobile device in response to receiving user input and b receiving a transmission comprising some or all the archived information. Restoring the archived information from the storage medium further comprises restoring a plurality of information comprising any one or more of applications programs application data music movies videos user settings and user preferences.

According to some embodiments a first and second program code are provided for retrieving the archived data where the first program code resides on the mobile device and is executable from the mobile device. Also provided according to embodiments is a method for archiving on a storage medium second computer executable program code configured to when executed restore the archived information from the storage medium to the mobile device. The second program code is executable from a remote location using a host device. According to some embodiments the first computer executable program code is identical to the second computer executable program code.

In a further embodiment of the invention identifying the storage medium external to the mobile device comprises communicating a request for user input indicating which of a plurality of storage media external to the mobile device should receive the identified information for archiving.

In accordance with yet another embodiment identifying the storage medium external to the mobile device comprises receiving user input indicating which of a plurality of storage media external to the mobile device should receive the identified information for archiving.

Identifying the storage medium external to the mobile device for archiving information comprises according to some embodiments determining two or more storage media external to the mobile device for archiving information the two or more storage media capable of being operatively connected with the mobile device and configured to receive information for archiving.

In yet other embodiments identifying the storage medium external to the mobile device for archiving information comprises determining one or more storage media external to the mobile device for archiving information operatively connected with the mobile device and configured to receive information for archiving.

Accordingly in yet other embodiments identifying the storage medium external to the mobile device for archiving information comprises recognizing that one or more storage media have been operatively connected with the mobile device and determining that the one or more storage media for archiving information are capable of receiving information for archiving.

In still yet other embodiments identifying the storage medium external to the mobile device for archiving information further comprises selecting one of the two or more storage media based at least in part on one or more media archiving preferences.

In accordance with embodiments the one or more media archiving preferences comprise one or more user selected preferences comprising a hierarchy of available storage media for archiving information.

Accordingly in yet other embodiments identifying the storage medium external to the mobile device for archiving information further comprises 1 communicating a prompt to the user requesting a hierarchy of available storage media and 2 receiving user input comprising the hierarchy of available storage media.

Accordingly as in some embodiments the media archiving preferences comprise an available capacity preference indicating that the storage media should be selected based on the greatest available storage capacity among the two or more storage media.

In still yet other embodiments the media archiving preferences comprise an available data transfer rate preference indicating that the storage media should be selected based on the greatest available data transfer rate among the two or more storage media.

In further accord with an embodiment of the claimed invention the storage medium external to the mobile device comprises one or more of a smartphone a telephone a personal digital assistant an SD card a micro SD card a USB device an external disk drive an internal disk drive one or more remote computers one or more remote servers one or more remote databases.

In accord with yet another embodiment of the claimed invention the media archiving preferences comprise a user defined criteria for selecting the storage medium external to the mobile device for archiving information.

Furthermore in accord with an embodiment of the claimed invention identifying information residing on the mobile device further comprises information that identifies the operating system of the mobile device.

The identified information to archive according to an embodiment of the claimed invention further comprises information that identifies the operating system of the mobile device.

In further accord with an embodiment of the claimed invention the identified information residing on the mobile device comprises any data stored on the memory of the mobile device.

Furthermore according to some embodiments of the invention selecting some or all the identified information to archive further comprises one or more user selected preferences comprising a selectable hierarchy of available information for archiving.

In further accord with an embodiment of the claimed invention the one or more user selected preferences further comprise archiving options that when selected by the user archive the selected hierarchy of available information without further user input at a user selected interval of time.

In further accord with yet another embodiment of the claimed invention the some or all the identified information to archive further comprises any one or more of a information that has been added since a previous archiving event at a preceding user selected interval of time and b information that has been modified since a previous archiving event at a preceding user selected interval of time.

Furthermore in accord with another embodiment of the claimed invention the some or all the available information to archive further comprises all information stored on the mobile device.

The instructions for storing the selected information to the identified storage medium further comprise according to embodiments of the invention instructions for retrieving the selected information from the identified storage medium.

Restoring the data as aforementioned albeit briefly is accomplished according to embodiments of the claimed invention using a method for retrieving archived information from a medium external to a target mobile device of a user the method comprising 1 identifying using a processing device a storage medium external to the target mobile device on which information previously residing on a mobile device is archived 2 identifying using a processing device the target mobile device to which archived information is restored 3 identifying using a processing device information archived on the storage medium 4 selecting some or all the archived information to restore to the target mobile device and 5 retrieving the selected information and instructions for restoring the selected information to the target mobile device from the storage medium external to the target mobile device by transmitting the information and instructions.

In further accord with an embodiment of the claimed invention restoring the data further comprises a executing the first computer executable program code on the mobile device to restore the archived information from the storage medium to the mobile device in response to receiving user input and b receiving a transmission comprising some or all the archived information.

Furthermore according to yet another embodiment restoring further comprises executing a second computer executable program code configured to when executed restore the archived information from the storage medium to the target mobile device.

In accordance with an embodiment of the claimed invention a first computer executable program code recorded on the target mobile device is identical to the second computer executable program code.

Furthermore embodiments are provided comprising executing the second computer executable program code using a host device wherein the second program code when executed is configured to cause the host device to a retrieve some or all the archived information from the identified storage medium b identify the operating system of the target mobile device c restore the archived information from the identified storage medium to the target mobile device and d communicate to the user that archived information has been retrieved from the identified storage medium and restored to the target mobile device.

In accordance with yet another embodiment the target mobile device is different from the mobile device from the mobile device from which the information is archived.

In yet another embodiment the operating system of the target mobile device is different from the operating system of the mobile device from which the information is archived.

Furthermore according to some embodiments restoring the archived information further comprises restoring a plurality of information comprising any one or more of applications programs application data digital photographs music movies videos user settings user preferences.

In accordance with another embodiment of the claimed invention executing the second computer executable program code using a host device wherein the second program code causes the host device to communicate to the user that the archived information is available for retrieval.

In yet another embodiment the second computer executable program code is further configured to when executed configure the archived information for the operating system of the mobile device to which information is restored.

In yet another embodiment identifying the storage medium external to the mobile device comprises communicating a request for user input indicating from which of a plurality of storage media external to the mobile device should retrieve the selected information.

Furthermore according to some embodiments identifying a storage medium external to the target mobile device on which information previously residing on a mobile device is archived comprises receiving user input indicating on which of a plurality of storage media external to the mobile device the identified information is archived.

According to yet other embodiments identifying the storage medium external to the target mobile device on which information previously residing on a mobile device is archived comprises determining which one or more storage media external to the target mobile device for archiving information is operatively connected with the target mobile device and configured to transmit archived information.

In accordance with another embodiment of the claimed invention identifying the storage medium external to the target mobile device on which information previously residing on a mobile device is archived comprises 1 recognizing that one or more storage media have been operatively connected with the mobile device and 2 determining that the one or more storage media for archiving information are capable of restoring the selected information to the target mobile device.

In accordance with another embodiment of the claimed invention identifying the storage medium external to the target mobile device on which information previously residing on a mobile device is archived further comprises selecting one of the two or more storage media based at least in part on one or more media archiving preferences.

According to yet other embodiments the one or more media archiving preferences comprise one or more user selected preferences comprising a hierarchy of available storage media for retrieving archived information.

In accordance with an embodiment of the claimed invention identifying the storage medium external to the target mobile device on which information previously residing on a mobile device is archived further comprises a communicating a prompt to the user requesting a hierarchy of available storage media and b receiving user input comprising the hierarchy of available storage media.

In accordance with yet another embodiment of the claimed invention the storage medium external to the target mobile device on which information previously residing on a mobile device is archived comprises one or more of a smartphone a telephone a personal digital assistant an SD card a micro SD card a USB device an external disk drive an internal disk drive one or more remote computers one or more remote servers one or more remote databases.

In accordance with yet other embodiments of the claimed invention the media archiving preferences comprise a user defined criterion for selecting the storage medium external to the mobile device for on which information previously residing on a mobile device is archived.

In still another embodiment selecting some or all the archived information to restore to the target mobile device comprises communicating a request for user input indicating the portion of archived information residing on the storage medium external to the target mobile device should be selected to restore.

In yet another embodiment some or all the archived information to restore to the target mobile device comprises receiving user input indicating the portion of archived information residing on the storage medium external to the target mobile device that is selected for restoring to the target mobile device.

In still another embodiment selecting some or all the archived information to restore to the target mobile device comprises a determining that some or all of the archived information does not reside on the target mobile device and b selecting the some or all of the archived information that does not reside on the target mobile device.

Embodiments of the claimed invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to elements throughout. Where possible any terms expressed in the singular form herein are meant to also include the plural form and vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise. Also as used herein the term a and or an shall mean one or more even though the phrase one or more is also used herein.

As used herein the term data shall mean information in a form suitable for use with a computer comprising one or more computer executable program code portions executable and non executable files machine binary code and or any other digital information used on a mobile device. The term information is used herein as an interchangeable term for data when used in context of a computing or archiving process.

In some embodiments information is said to be archived which will be understood to mean a non transitory storage of electronic information residing on a mobile electronic device i.e. data computer programs files code preferences settings and or the like on a non transitory computer readable medium that is external to the mobile electronic device. Archiving is known to those skilled in the art to be the process of backing up that is making copies of data which may be used to restore the original after a data loss event. Information that is backed up is said to be archived and vice versa. Information that is restored is copied from the archive media and written to the non transitory memory of the mobile device or a replacement mobile device. Information data restoration will be understood to mean copying the data from the archive media to the target mobile device and configuring the data for use by mobile applications on the target mobile device. In some embodiments of the claimed invention described in more detail hereafter configuring the information may include preparing the archived information for use in a dissimilar operating system environment than the operating system environment from which the information was archived.

Storage media includes but is not limited to non volatile electronic memory such as computer hard disk memory i.e. internal or external hard disk drive HDD etc. solid state semiconductor memory i.e. USB flash memory solid state hard drives memory cards SD card micro SD card etc. magnetic memory i.e. magnetic disk memory magnetic tape memory etc. optical memory i.e. compact disk CD writable compact disk CD R re writable compact disk CD RW Blu ray Disk digital video disk DVD high definition video disk HD DVD holographic memory 3D data storage etc. and or any combination of the foregoing. Storage media may be physically connected to the mobile device or be operatively connected through a wired or wireless network connection i.e. cloud storage remote storage one or more local and or remote servers etc. . Storage media may work independently or as a part of a computing system.

The present invention is generally characterized as a method and apparatus for archiving e.g. saving or backing up and restoring e.g. retrieving and or re writing to the target device information that is stored on a mobile device for example a mobile phone. The following description illustrates embodiments of the present invention in which data on the mobile device is selected and saved to one or more physical locations either locally or on a network such as cloud storage or remote data archive s . Further the following description illustrates embodiments where the archived information is restored from the one or more archives to the original device or a suitable replacement device.

Looking now at an illustration is presented showing a high level process flow for a mobile device data archiving system which will be discussed in further detail throughout this specification with respect to . Process Flow illustrates an embodiment of the system where a mobile device which contains data is running a first computer executable program code that allows the device to archive and retrieve data. The data located on the mobile device of Process Flow is said to reside on the device. Process Flow describes the archiving portion of the claimed invention in general terms. As shown in block the first computer executable code causes the mobile device to identify a storage medium external to the mobile device for archiving the information residing on the mobile device. As related in more detail in a storage medium can include any of a plurality of storage media. Examples of a storage medium include but are not limited to a removable hard drive SD RAM a remote server a local computer hard drive another mobile device cloud storage accessed using a network such as the internet and or the like.

Identifying a storage medium available for archiving according to some embodiments includes identifying any and all storage media that are operatively connected or otherwise accessible to the mobile device. Accessibility to a storage medium includes at least the ability of a mobile device a host device and or computer executable program code to transmit information to and receive information from the storage medium. According to embodiments of the claimed invention identifying the storage medium external to the mobile device may further include communicating a request for user input indicating which of a plurality of storage media external to the mobile device should receive the identified information for archiving.

According to some embodiments two or more storage media external to the mobile device may be used for archiving information. As an example according to one embodiment the user selects an option after being prompted to use a cloud data storage account as the primary archiving location and chooses a hard drive located on a local personal computer that is operatively connected to the mobile device by a wireless local area network WLAN . Any number of available storage media external to the mobile device may be used for archiving and is limited only by user selection and practicality. Accordingly a hierarchy of available storage media is created by the system of Process Flow where any media currently or previously connected to the mobile device appears in the hierarchy. Connected and currently available media shows as especially highlighted indicating that the media is active and available.

Some embodiments include user selected media archiving preferences where a user indicates the preferred archiving method. An example of a user preferred method for storage media selection is where the system of Process Flow based on a user selected preference automatically chooses storage media based on the greatest available storage capacity among the two or more storage media that are available for archiving. Accordingly media archiving preference can alternately or alternatively be user selected based on an available data transfer rate where the storage media with the greatest available data transfer rate among the two or more storage media is selected as the primary storage media. As an example the system of Process Flow identifies that the available storage media for archiving are a remote server available to the mobile device through an operative internet connection and an external hard drive operatively connected to the mobile device through a micro USB connection. The system of Process Flow identifies that the internet connection provides a faster transfer rate than the micro USB connection and chooses the remote server as the primary medium for archiving based on the user selected preference. Yet other embodiments provide for one or more user selected preferences where a hierarchy of available storage media for archiving information is ordered by the user. According to yet other embodiments a hierarchy of available storage media is manually input by a user where the user is prompted to provide a hierarchy of available storage media and the user responds by indicating which media is available.

As represented by block information residing on the mobile device is identified by the system of Process Flow . Information identified includes but is in no way limited to electronic information such as applications code portions application data phonebooks calendars movies videos music digital photographs databases spreadsheets documents settings preferences operating system data and or other digital information.

Some or all of the identified information is selected by the system of Process Flow for archiving as shown in block . Identified information available for archiving includes any data stored on the memory of the mobile device. The selection of identified information to archive further includes one or more user selected preferences comprising a selectable hierarchy of available information for archiving. As an example a user may select the preference of archiving all music email and contact entries however the user may also select the preference to omit archiving movies residing on the memory of the mobile device. In accordance with the user selected preferences then only music email and contact entries residing on the user s mobile device are selected for archiving. The process of block may also be accomplished by the default preferences of the system of Process Flow where all information available for archiving is selected.

According to some embodiments of the claimed invention some or all of the identified information to archive may be selected because the data that has been changed or added since the previous archiving event at a preceding user selected interval of time. As an example the user selected interval of time for archiving may be 24 hours where the system of Process Flow identifies any information on the mobile device that has been modified or added within the previous 24 hours and archives only the added and or modified information.

Yet other embodiments of the claimed invention some or all of identified information to archive may include both user accessible data and data that is not user accessible. Examples of user accessible data may include information such as but not limited to transaction history preferences and settings program data and or abovementioned data such as music email etc. User accessible data can be accessed by the user selected modified and or purposefully executed by selection.

Additionally or alternatively information to archive that is not user accessible may include but is not limited to secured elements data on the mobile device such as payment account credentials financial institution settings and or credentials electronic coupons offers transit cards security keys house keys mobile wallet items mobile wallet settings mobile wallet preferences miscellaneous security credentials and or the like. Of course while the information that is not user accessible is generally not by definition directly user accessible by selecting viewing or otherwise manipulating the information may be archived by selecting a general category of selected information to archive such as by a user selectable preference setting such as Archive Secured Elements and or the like.

Block represents archiving the selected information by transmitting the selected information from the mobile device to the one or more storage media. Transmission is made through either wired or wireless connection or a combination of the foregoing. Yet other embodiments perform a transmission of all information stored on the mobile device at each archiving event. Such an embodiment of the claimed invention selects and transmits the complete memory contents of the mobile device which includes all the information stored on the mobile device including operating system information.

The primary objective of the claimed invention is the safeguarding of information residing on a mobile device for the purpose of restoring the information to the mobile device after a data loss event. As represented in Block of a computer executable program code is recorded on the mobile device for restoring the archived information back to the mobile device. According to embodiments of the claimed invention the system of Process Flow writes a computer executable code to the mobile device at each archiving event that when executed restores information from the storage media to the mobile device. The code is executed by the user which activates a series of automated steps and user prompts that result in a complete restoration of the damaged lost and or missing information to the mobile device. A complete restoration includes secured information such as personal files and data and non secured information such as downloadable mobile application code. Some embodiments of the claimed invention provide a written list of steps for the user to perform to restore mobile applications to the mobile device that may be lost or damaged and were not selected for archiving. For example to limit the volume of transmitted data at each archiving event a user sets the preference that all application data be selected for archiving however the non secured information i.e. the applications themselves are not selected for archiving. In different terms the user archives only the unique irreplaceable information the secured data for archiving such as settings preferences user files etc. while omitting the application which can be easily replaced by re downloading from the application provider the non secured data .

In the event of partial or total mobile device failure the system of Process Flow identifies that the mobile applications require restoration and in addition to restoring the archived information creates a numbered to do list for the user to perform to restore the phone to a previous condition. Accordingly the system of Process Flow records and transmits a similar or identical computer executable code as part of the information selected for archiving . In the event of a complete device failure or loss of the device the aforementioned code is accessible using a host device such as a personal computer or another mobile device and can be transferred to a replacement mobile device and executed to perform the same task.

Some or all associated financial institution data on a mobile device such as a mobile wallet credentials for example may be affected by a data restoration event. According to embodiments disclosed in the event of a data restoration event the system of Process Flow may notify a financial institution associated with financial accounts accessed by the mobile device that a mobile device has had a data restoration and or other modification affecting secured financial institution credentials. Accordingly the financial institution will update one or more host systems external to the mobile device to reflect the new device credentials secured data elements etc. Some embodiments may include automated notification of a data restoration to a financial institution of the hardware and or account changes or may include a notification to the mobile device user to notify a financial institution of the hardware and or account changes. In yet other embodiments one or more elements of the numbered to do list may include a request to contact the financial institution technical support department or other financial institution representative.

Looking now at an embodiment will be described that demonstrates one possible system for mobile device data archiving. In general the system embodies multiple media on which a mobile device may be configured to communicate transmit and ultimately accomplish the general intent of the claimed invention. According to the shown embodiment of system a mobile device may have access to one two or more media at any given time. In most real life scenarios it is not practical or possible to connect to each medium at every archiving event. One possible reason for connecting to more than one media archive at an archiving event is for redundant data storage which decreases the likelihood of data loss. Normally however a single media storage source is selected based on to user preference.

The network may be a global area network GAN such as the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or any other type of network or combination of networks. The network may include one or more separate networks. The network may include one or more payment networks e.g. interbank networks Visa s payment network VisaNet MasterCard s payment network BankNet any wireline and or wireless network over which payment information is sent etc. telephone networks e.g. cellular networks CDMA networks any wireline and or wireless network over which communications to telephones and or mobile phones are sent etc. local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs global area networks GANs e.g. the Internet etc. and or one or more other telecommunications networks. For example in some embodiments the network includes a telephone network e.g. for communicating with the mobile device and a payment network. It will also be understood that the network may be secure and or unsecure and may also include wireless and or wireline technology.

In some embodiments the mobile device the host device the local data storage media and remote personal computer data storage are each owned and maintained by the user . In other embodiments the mobile device is owned and maintained by the user and some or all of the aforementioned storage media are owned and or maintained by separate entities. For example in some embodiments the remote cloud data storage is or includes a remote server or network of servers operatively connected to one another via a network. The cloud data storage is normally owned and maintained by an entity separate from the user however may be fully accessible by the user using the user s mobile device or some other means such as a host device . In accordance with some embodiments the mobile device is associated with the user and or is carried possessed and or owned by the user . In yet other embodiments each of the devices of system are owned and maintained by a separate entity such as a financial institution or other business entity.

The mobile device generally includes a communication device a processing device and a memory device . The mobile device may be for example a handheld personal computer a tablet computer a cellular phone smart phone personal data assistant PDA laptop and or the like. Although only a single mobile device is depicted in the mobile device data archiving system may contain numerous mobile devices . The mobile device is essentially a mobile computing system that allows a user to perform a plurality of computing tasks and is in many embodiments similar in function to a personal computer. The mobile device connects to a plurality of storage media via a network . The processing device is operatively coupled to the communication device and the memory device . The processing device uses the communication device to communicate with the network and other devices on the network . As such the communication device generally includes a modem wireless transmitter or other device for communicating with other devices on the network .

As further illustrated in the mobile device may include computer executable program code stored in the memory device which in one embodiment includes the computer executable program code containing as a module an archive restoration application . In this way a user may be able to select archiving and restoration preferences archive information and restore information to the mobile device using the archive restoration application .

The mobile device the remote personal computer data storage is represented as a remote medium for archiving information residing on a mobile device . The remote PC data storage contains within the memory device computer executable program code containing as a module an archive restoration application . The computer executable code according to some embodiments is identical to the code stored on the mobile device . The redundant storage of the computer executable program code and is provided so that the restoration instructions specific to a particular mobile device can be recovered and executed in the event of a catastrophic data loss event such as the device being lost or destroyed. In such an event the computer executable program code can be accessed using a host device or a replacement mobile device and executed either remotely across the network or manually copied from the remote PC to the mobile device and executed locally on the mobile device . Similar to the mobile device the remote PC data storage generally includes a communication device a processing device and a memory device .

The host device embodied as a personal computer can be any of a number of computing platforms that allow access to network devices such as storage media and or mobile device . The host device of system provides a means to copy the computer executable program code from a remote data storage or other storage media such as remote cloud data storage to the target mobile device .

According to some embodiments described herein the remote cloud data storage depicts a model of networked online storage where data is stored on multiple virtual servers rather than being hosted on dedicated servers. In some instances a hosting company operates large data centers. Those entities requiring that data be hosted may buy or lease storage capacity from the hosting company and use the cloud data storage service for a plurality of data storage needs. The data center operators in the background virtualize i.e. make the resource appear to the mobile device as if the resource were part of the device the resources according to the requirements of the cloud data storage user . The user uses the remote cloud data storage to store files information and or data. Physically the resource may span across multiple servers or may be physically located on a single remote server. Cloud storage services may be accessed through a web service application programming interface API or through a Web based user interface accessible through the mobile device a host device or another computing platform operating across the network and capable of executing the interface.

Referring now to block of the system of Process Flow identifies a storage medium external to the mobile device on which information is archived. According to some embodiments the storage medium is identified automatically by the system of Process Flow . In yet other embodiments the storage medium on which information is archived is identified by receiving input in response to a user prompt by the system. A prompt is communicated to the user requesting a hierarchy of available storage media. A user then supplies input comprising the hierarchy of available storage media.

Additionally according to some embodiments identification of one or more storage media external to the target mobile device may also include determining which one or more of a plurality of known media are operatively connected to the target mobile device and are configured to transmit the archived information. First the system of Process Flow recognizes that one or more storage media have been operatively connected with the mobile device. The system then tests the stability and speed of the wired or wireless network connection in preparation for data transmission.

Block represents the step of identifying the target device to which information is restored. As part of the determination the system of Process Flow also determines the operating system of the target mobile device. A determination is then made by the system that the one or more storage media for archiving information are capable of restoring the selected information to the mobile device. Determining the capability of restoring according to some embodiments may include testing the integrity and completeness of the data to be restored determining the operating system of the device from which the archive data was transmitted determining if the system of Process Flow is capable of configuring the data for the operating system of the target mobile device and identifying which portion of the archive data is capable of being transmitted. Accordingly some or all of the archived information to restore to the target mobile device is selected.

The program code causes the host device according to an embodiment of the invention to communicate to the user that the archived information is available for retrieval. The communication contains according to one embodiment information describing the archived data available for retrieval including any one or more of the following data type archive date of the data location of the data on the archive device from which the data was archived information that compares the archived data to the same and or similar data residing on the mobile device as a means for comparison i.e. the data is up to date on the mobile device connection speed between the data archive and the target mobile device and the like.

The communication to the user that the archived information is available for retrieval is delivered to the user in a number of ways according to embodiments of the invention. For example the communication is delivered by a dialogue box shown to the user on the mobile device in some embodiments. In yet other embodiments an email is sent to the user. In yet other embodiments an SMS text message is sent to the target mobile device or a host device configured by the user to work with the archive system of Process Flow . Similarly according to embodiments of the claimed invention the system is configured to deliver to the user a message indicating that the information has been restored from the archive to the target mobile device at the appropriate time.

In accordance with some embodiments the system of Process Flow selects some or all the archived information to restore to the target mobile device by determining that some or all of the archived information does not reside on the target mobile device and selecting the archived information that resides on the archive medium but not on target mobile device. In general terms the system identifies which information is on the media that is not on the target mobile device and selects that missing information for transmission to the mobile device.

The selected information and the instructions for restoring the information to the target mobile device are transmitted to the mobile device. The device is said to be retrieved that is the transmission is initiated by the system of Process Flow and the information is transmitted across the network to the target mobile device . A portion of the information selected and transmitted to the target mobile device is information identifying the operating system of the device from which the data is archived. Block depicts the system decision in which the operating system of the target device is compared with the operating system associated with the archived information. If the operating system is the same the information is restored to the target mobile device . If the operating systems are not the same the information is configured for use by the new operating system at which point the archived information is then restored to the target mobile device.

Block refers to the configuration of data to be received by a dissimilar operating system from the operating system of the original device. The system of Process Flow is equipped to compare root directories of both operating systems and configure the restored data to the usable directory locations of the target device operating system. In cases where file extensions and file metadata requires modification the system configures the archived information by making the required data modifications. The configured information is then restored to the target mobile device .

As illustrated in an interface archive restoration application is provided in accordance with one embodiment of the claimed invention which allows a user to archive information and restore information using the interface. The security interface provides a user name entry and password entry for secure access to stored archive information. User preferences are set at the initial use of the archive restoration application where the user sets the username password and security question . The security question works by providing the user a means to access a forgotten password by supplying a security question written by the user. The security question is presumably unanswerable by a person other than the user. The encrypted security preferences are stored with the archive information on any remote or local storage media and on the mobile device. Access to archived data therefore is available from either the original mobile device or from a host device as described in . The interface is generally divided into two main areas for operating the system of the claimed invention. The archiving options and the restoration options .

After initiating the restoration application and providing security credentials a user sees both archiving and restoration options available for selection options. The archiving options show available storage media as selectable buttons where each button appears as the particular medium is either currently detected or known to be associated with the device in the past. Each of the selectable buttons is highlighted as the user selects each medium for archiving. According to some embodiments the medium selection buttons toggle on and off as each button is respectively selected and unselected. When more than one medium is selected each selected medium receives the archiving transmission. Accordingly embodiments of the invention allow for redundant copies of archive data to be made at each archiving event.

 Archive Application Data and Archive Music Movies Multimedia are single click archiving options that allow a user to select a single button and initiate an archiving event. For example if the user wishes to archive application data the same named button is selected by the user and an archiving event is initiated that archives application data only. Full System Backup initiates a full archiving event in a similar manner as by providing a backup of all contents of memory on the mobile device. Any future scheduled archiving events remain unaffected by any of the single button initiated archiving events.

 Custom Backup is user selected to access custom archiving properties. Custom archiving properties includes individual application of archiving options to each medium. For example a user wishes to archive only the music movies and multimedia stored on the mobile device as a full backup at the first archiving event and then archive only new added music movies and multimedia during the following archiving events. At the same time the user wishes to schedule a full backup of all application data. The user may set both custom archiving properties by selecting Custom Backup .

The Archiving Instructions button and Restoration Instructions button initiate the readable text files that are included as part of the archive restoration application for each respective topic. The text files are help files containing a full set of instructions for archiving and backing up information on the mobile device.

 Restoration Options function according to embodiments of the claimed invention as the identical reverse of Archiving Options . That is each of the single click buttons Application Data Music Movies Multimedia and Full Restoration initiate respective restoration events identical to the Archive Options and but in reverse by retrieving data from the selected archive media processing the data see block and saving the processed data to the functional locations on the mobile device file data directory. Custom Restoration initiates custom properties for user selection for restoring the data in reverse of the custom backup of archiving options . The Finished button closes the archive restoration application .

As used herein the term processing device generally includes circuitry used for implementing the communication and or logic functions of the particular system. For example a processing device may include a digital signal processing device device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and other support circuits and or combinations of the foregoing. Control and signal processing functions of the system are allocated between these processing devices according to their respective capabilities. The processing device may include functionality to operate one or more software programs based on computer executable program code thereof which may be stored in a memory device.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the claimed invention may be embodied as an apparatus including for example a system a machine a device a computer program product and or the like as a method including for example a business process a computer implemented process and or the like or as any combination of the foregoing. Accordingly embodiments of the claimed invention may take the form of an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. an entirely hardware embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the claimed invention may take the form of a computer program product that includes a computer readable storage medium having computer executable program code portions stored therein. As used herein a processing device may be configured to perform a certain function in a variety of ways including for example by having one or more general purpose circuits perform the functions by executing one or more computer executable program code portions embodied in a computer readable medium and or having one or more application specific circuits perform the function.

It will be understood that any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may include but is not limited to a non transitory computer readable medium such as a tangible electronic magnetic optical infrared electromagnetic and or semiconductor system apparatus and or device. For example in some embodiments the non transitory computer readable medium includes a tangible medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM and or some other tangible optical and or magnetic storage device. In other embodiments of the claimed invention however the computer readable medium may be transitory such as a propagation signal including computer executable program code portions embodied therein.

It will also be understood that one or more computer executable program code portions for carrying out operations of the claimed invention may include object oriented scripted and or unscripted programming languages such as for example Java Perl Smalltalk C SAS SQL Python Objective C and or the like. In some embodiments the one or more computer executable program code portions for carrying out operations of embodiments of the claimed invention are written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming languages and or similar programming languages. The computer program code may alternatively or additionally be written in one or more multi paradigm programming languages such as for example F .

It will further be understood that some embodiments of the claimed invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of systems methods and or computer program products. It will be understood that each block included in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks included in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams may be implemented by one or more computer executable program code portions. These one or more computer executable program code portions may be provided to a processing device of a general purpose computer special purpose computer and or some other programmable data processing apparatus in order to produce a particular machine such that the one or more computer executable program code portions which execute via the processing device of the computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the steps and or functions represented by the flowchart s and or block diagram block s .

It will also be understood that the one or more computer executable program code portions may be stored in a transitory or non transitory computer readable medium e.g. a memory etc. that can direct a computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the computer executable program code portions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction mechanisms which implement the steps and or functions specified in the flowchart s and or block diagram block s .

The one or more computer executable program code portions may also be loaded onto a computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer and or other programmable apparatus. In some embodiments this produces a computer implemented process such that the one or more computer executable program code portions which execute on the computer and or other programmable apparatus provide operational steps to implement the steps specified in the flowchart s and or the functions specified in the block diagram block s . Alternatively computer implemented steps may be combined with operator and or human implemented steps in order to carry out an embodiment of the claimed invention.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

