---

title: Electric grid optimization
abstract: Various embodiments are directed to systems and methods for optimizing energy use with one or more optimization engine objects. An optimization engine object may have a plurality of dependent objects including at least a dependent optimization engine object, or at least one of a supply-side or demand-side object. The optimization engine object may receive dependent object attribute data from each of the at least one dependent objects; determine an optimal configuration for the plurality of dependent objects over the first time period subject to at least one optimization constraint; and conditioned upon the optimization engine depending from a superior optimization engine, transmit a net energy usage associated with the optimal configuration to the superior optimization engine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08812165&OS=08812165&RS=08812165
owner: Duke Energy Corporation
number: 08812165
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120113
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 438 850 filed on Feb. 2 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Modern electric grids include many generation and transmission resources used to provide power to different types of customer loads. Generation and transmission resources may include generators transmission lines sub stations reclosers transformers etc. These resources and different instances thereof have different capabilities settings and limitations. For example each generation resource has a total as well as a marginal cost. Different combinations of transmission resources may allow specific customer loads to be connected to different generation sources although increased physical distance between a generation source and a load may lead to reduced efficiency due to transmission losses.

Customer loads also come in different types having different characteristics. For example residential customers require power for heating and cooling equipment such as heaters air conditioners etc. as well as for lighting dish washers hot water heating clothes washers etc. Business and industrial customers require power for lighting computer and information systems as well as for industrial machinery such as large and small electric motors furnaces etc. Each load has different and often unique characteristics. For example different loads draw different levels of power kW reactive power kVAR and energy kVA . Also different loads have different temporal placements and reliability requirements often based on the requirements of the customer.

Electric grid management attempts to match grid connected generation and transmission resources to load. Existing management systems however are centralized utility operated mechanisms that are implemented in a one way top down manner. According to the existing systems generation output and grid configuration settings are determined centrally based on the information available to the central control mechanism and the preferences of the utility. Often however centralized control in this manner leads to sub optimal financial and operational configurations of the electric grid because the centralized mechanisms fail to take into consideration the needs of some or all of the participants in the grid e.g. customers and the utility .

Various embodiments are directed to distributed object oriented systems for managing electric grid components such as generation components transmission components and in some embodiments load components as well as methods for operating the same. A utility or other grid management provider may implement a plurality of optimization engines that may be distributed logically and or physically across the electric grid to optimize electric grid components. The optimization engines may be programmed to consider each electric grid component and other optimization engines as objects described by certain attributes and responsive to certain commands. For example electric grid objects may be described by electricity generated or consumed e.g. measured in energy power and or capacitance and may respond to commands regarding activation operation level etc.

Each optimization engine may be assigned to monitor analyze and optimize one or more electric grid objects e.g. generation objects transmission objects load objects other optimization engines etc. . For example each optimization engine may independently optimize and allocate electricity between its assigned dependent objects. If an optimization engine has an assigned or dependent object that is another optimization engine the dependent optimization engine may be instructed to institute its own optimization and the results may be considered by the first optimization engine. In this way the optimization may be multi layered. In various embodiments the optimization may also be multi dimensional. For example the optimization may be made considering different dimensions of generated electricity e.g. energy capacitance power harmonics etc. limitations posed by the physical properties of the grid e.g. supplying too much power to one customer may cause a voltage sag to other customers as well as customer preferences. In some embodiments customer preferences include both predetermined customer preferences and forecasted change in preferences e.g. due to the position of the customer relative to the customer s point of connection of the electric grid such as a home or business . The position of the customer may be determined for example based on a position of a mobile device and or demand side object e.g. electric vehicle associated with the customer.

The optimal allocation at any given optimization engine may or may not balance. That is the optimization engine may or may not be able to match the output of all of its assigned generation objects to all of its assigned load objects e.g. the optimization engine may have a positive or negative imbalance of commodities . In cases where an optimization engine cannot optimally balance its imbalance of commodities may be pushed up to a second optimization engine assigned responsibility for the unbalanced optimization engine. The second optimization engine may then optimize and allocate electricity among its assigned objects including the unbalanced optimization engine. Any imbalance of commodities at the second optimization engine may again be pushed up and re balanced at a higher level. The process may be repeated until the electric grid as a whole is optimized.

Before providing example details of the optimization engines a description of an example electric grid is provided. illustrates one embodiment of the example electric grid that may be managed by optimization engines as described herein. The grid may comprise electric components as well as communications system components. The electric components may comprise equipment for generating transmitting and consuming electricity. Example electric components include generation units transmission units substation units distributed generation units customer premises customer appliances and customer generation units . The electric components may have a variety of different states. For example different customers may be connected to different generation units via different substation units depending on the switching configuration of the grid . Generation units may be any sort of equipment for generating electricity including for example coal fired generators natural gas generators nuclear generators hydro electric generators etc. Generation units may have capabilities described in terms of power e.g. measured in kilowatts or kW energy e.g. measured in kilovolt amps or kVA or capacitance e.g. measured in kilovolt amps reactive or kVAR .

Generation units may transmit generated electricity via one or more transmission units . The transmission units may comprise power lines including for example high voltage power lines as well as other transmission equipment. Substations may receive electricity from the transmission units and distribute it to customer premises . Additional transmission and distribution equipment not shown may be included in the electric grid including for example reclosers transformers etc.

The customer premises may comprise various customer appliances which may be demand side or load objects. Examples of customer appliances may include heating and air conditioning equipment dishwashers hot water heaters washing machines dryers etc. Business and or industrial customer premises may have different kinds of customer appliances including for example computer or information systems equipment industrial motors etc. In various embodiments some customer premises may have grid connected generation equipment such as for example solar panels wind turbines fuel powered generators etc. Customer generation equipment may be configured to provide power to the electric grid in some situations. Also for example the electric grid may comprise other distributed generation units . Distributed generation units may be conventional fossil fuel or nuclear powered or renewable generation units such as solar or wind generation units. Distributed generation units may not be centrally located on the grid e.g. to take advantage of geography specific fuel sources . Also different system components may other be in service or out of service. A Geographic Information System GIS System may be used to monitor and update a current configuration of the electric components of the grid including their geographic location capability and connectivity. In various embodiments the GIS system may not directly monitor customer premises appliances or generation units . In some embodiments however the GIS system is used by optimization engines described below to determine the logical and physical configuration of the optimization problems.

In addition to the electric components the electric grid may comprise communications system components such as the communications nodes . The communications nodes may be in communication with one another for example via one or more wired or wireless network components not shown in . In various embodiments communications nodes may be implemented by the utility operating the grid and may comprise various sensors servers and or communications equipment e.g. routers servers etc. for monitoring the electric components. For example in various embodiments the GIS system may be implemented utilizing the communications nodes . Current and historic operations data describing the electric components may be stored at a data store . The data store may be centrally located or may comprise multiple physical devices physically and or logically distributed throughout the electric grid . Utility communication nodes may comprise sensing and communications equipment provided by the utility to monitor its equipment on the electric grid. Examples of equipment suitable for use as utilities nodes are available from AMBIENT and ECHELON. Customer communication nodes may comprise any equipment in communication with the utility communications nodes and used to monitor and or control customer appliances and or generation units . Customer communication nodes may be provided by the utility e.g. purchased or rented from the utility or may comprise one or more third party home energy controller HEC systems such as those available from CISCO and GENERAL ELECTRIC. In some embodiments customer communication nodes may also comprise other customer equipment described herein such as cellular or mobile phones palmtop or tablet computers laptop computers desktop computers etc. A diagram showing example grid and communication system connectivities e.g. utilizing a GIS system is provided at and described below.

Although example connectivities between the various generation units transmission units substations and customer premises are shown in it will be appreciated that many other states of the electric grid are possible including for example alternative connectivities between components. Different grid connectivities may be achieved by modifying the settings of transmission and distribution equipment such as transmission units substations as well as transformers re closers etc. Also it will be appreciated that the properties of some components may be modified e.g. by embodiments of the distributed management system described herein. For example customer appliances may be turned on or off and for some appliances consumption levels may be set. Additionally generation units may be turned on and off and for some units a generation level may be set. Some or all of the grid configurations described herein may be modifiable by the optimization engines to achieve an optimal grid configuration. The GIS system as described herein may monitor a current state of the non customer equipment on the grid .

As described above the electric grid may be managed and or optimized by implementing a plurality of object oriented optimization engines. The optimization engines may be executed on dedicated equipment or may in various embodiments be implemented by existing equipment e.g. communications nodes operating as part of the communications network described above. For example the optimization engines may take advantage of existing data and or command connections with electric components of the grid to monitor and or control the electric system components. Logically each component of the electric grid and the optimization engines themselves may be considered as an object having an inheritable schedule of attributes and or commands. One class of electric system component object may include utility controlled objects. These may be objects such as generation transmission and distribution objects that are at least partially under the control of the utility and therefore may be controlled by the optimization engines. Utility controlled objects in some embodiments may also include some customer appliances . For example as described herein a customer may consent to allow the utility e.g. via an optimization engine to at least partially control the operation of some customer appliances. Another class of objects may include customer controlled objects. The utility may not have the right and or capability to modify the operation of customer controlled objects e.g. via the optimization engines . Accordingly the optimization engines may merely monitor customer controlled objects.

The various objects may be logically arranged according to a hierarchy that may be structured considering the physical constraints of the electric components and the communications network. For example related objects may correspond to electric components on the grid that are electrically connected to one another and connected via the communication network such that communication is not cost prohibitive. shows one embodiment of a logical hierarchy of electric grid objects. Each electric grid component to be optimized and each optimization engine may have an object in the hierarchy . For example the hierarchy comprises a plurality of optimization engine OE objects as well as generation objects distribution objects transmission objects e.g. supply side objects and load objects e.g. demand side objects . Each of the non OE objects may correspond to a physical electric component of the electric grid having a specific geographic location. Some non OE objects may be customer controlled e.g. customer controlled load object while others may be utility controlled e.g. utility controlled load object . Also it will be appreciated that non load objects such as generation object customer generation object transmission object and distribution object may be utility and or customer controlled. Each object including the non OE objects may have associated attributes or property for a fixed period of time e.g. past present and or future . For example if a load object is a water heater one property may be present time usage of the water heater. Historic and or projected future use of the water heater or other load object may also be considered.

As illustrated in by connective lines various objects in the hierarchy may depend on other objects. For example when a first object depends on a second object the second object may monitor and control the first object. Dependency between a first object and a second object in various embodiments may be determined based on the proximity of the objects in the electric grid and the communications network and or the relative proximity of the objects to the supply and demand sides. For example objects may be dependent on one another if the electric components corresponding to electric components that are presently connected on the grid in a manner allowing interaction. It will be appreciated that as the state of the grid changes e.g. as indicated by the GIS system dependencies between different objects may also change.

According to various embodiments each non OE object may depend on an OE object . Also each OE object may have at least one dependent object e.g. a non OE object an OE object or both . In various embodiments each OE object may be configured to operate as both a dependent and an independent object. For example if an OE object that depends on another OE object loses its state e.g. loses contact with its parent OE object such as during a service interruption it may retain control and management of its dependent objects using last known preferences. In this way if the physical layers of the electric grid e.g. the grid and or the communication system experience a failure each OE object may be able to operate independently for a period of time.

Each individual OE object may be configured to optimize and allocate the resources and loads of the objects that depend on it. For example each OE object and each logical layer of the hierarchy may sense monitor and analyze at its respective layer e.g. its dependent objects . In this way control and analysis of the electric grid maybe pushed down to the various objects at all layers. For example each OE object may make an independent determination about what is happening among its locally connected e.g. dependent objects sensing the available resources and determining how to proceed independent of OE objects positioned higher in the hierarchy . In this way because the design may not be tied to a centralized controller reliability and security may be improved providing a more robust system. Further because data analysis is distributed there may not be a need to send all data to any central location reducing data transfer traffic and related expenses.

Each OE object may inherent input data from its dependent objects. The input data may comprise a schedule of net resources e.g. energy power and or capacitance producing capability of generation objects a schedule of net demands e.g. energy power and or capacitance consuming objects and preferences e.g. customer billing preferences customer consumption preferences and or utility preferences associated with the dependent objects. Given the input data the OE object may attempt to schedule the resources and load objects that depend directly or indirectly from the OE object in the most economically rational manner based on the intelligence of interconnected OE objects customer preferences utility preferences etc. as described herein. When an OE object is unable to balance dependent load objects with dependent generation and or distribution objects the OE object may show an imbalance of commodities positive or negative which may be provided to the OE object s superior OE object . The superior OE object may see the first OE object as another object with its own properties e.g. a balance or imbalance of commodities along with any other pass through preferences .

OE objects may receive and or generate customer and or utility preferences in any suitable manner. For example an OE object having dependent customer load objects may receive billing and consumption preferences directly from the customer. In various embodiments a customer may provide some or all of the customer preferences via a home energy controller HEC or other suitable interface e.g. I come home at 6 00 p.m. and want the house to be at 72 during the winter. . These may be referred to as explicit customer consumption preferences. Also in some embodiments OE objects may have functionality for determining customer preferences through observation. For example an OE object having one or more dependent load objects may observe the load objects noting customer usage patterns relative to factors such as weather conditions date time of day etc. These may be referred to as implicit customer consumption preferences. In various embodiments net energy power and capacitance requirements to meet the customer s preferences may also be stored and provided to the appropriate OE object .

According to various embodiments customer location and or activity may be utilized to determine the customer preferences and or net demand associated with one or more load objects e.g. demand side objects . A single customer may be associated with multiple load objects. For example a customer may prefer different thermostat settings when the customer is at home versus when the customer is away. Also if a customer is away from home and using a device with a battery that must be recharged the customer may prefer to recharge the device when he or she arrives home indicating increased load in the near future. In various embodiments the OE object may directly or indirectly receive information about a customer s location and activities. For example the customer may carry a mobile device that reports the customer s location such as a cell phone GPS tablet computer etc. The mobile device may communicate directly or indirectly with an OE object utilizing any suitable communication protocol including for example cellular protocols such as 4G peer to peer protocols such as FLASHLINQ WI FI DIRECT etc. The mobile devices may track the location of the customer using any suitable method including for example a Global Position System GPS method a triangulation method etc. In various embodiments demand side objects themselves may report customer activity. For example an electric car plug in hybrid or other vehicle including or constituting a demand side object may communication directly or indirectly with an OE object .

Customer location and or activity information may be used in conjunction with customer preferences to determine energy requirements for one or more demand side objects. For example customer preferences for an HVAC system may indicate a first temperature range if the customer is at home and a second temperature range if the customer is not at home. Accordingly the preferences associated with the HVAC system may be modified based on the customer s desired home temperature and the customer s location. In some embodiments OE objects or other components may have functionality for forecasting future energy use base on customer preferences and customer location and or activity. For example a customer preference may be that the customer likes his or her house to be at a certain warm temperature e.g. 75 80 upon arriving home when it is cold outside e.g. below a threshold temperature . After determining that the preference applies e.g. it is below the threshold temperature the OE object may update the schedule of net demand for the customer s HVAC system based on the customer s estimated time of arrival at home. The estimated time of arrival at home may be scheduled e.g. the customer arrives at 5 30 p.m. on weekdays or may be calculated automatically based on the customer s location direction speed etc. which may be derived from the customer s mobile device vehicle etc. In another example if the customer s mobile device vehicle etc. indicates that the customer is using a battery operated device which will require re charging the schedule of net demand for the appropriate demand side object e.g. the customer s home may be updated. For example an electric car may indicate to an OE object it s remaining charge and its distance from home. From this the OE object may derive an amount of charge that the car will require when it arrives home and an approximate time when it will arrive home. Alternately the car may derive the required charge and timing and provide this information to the OE object .

OE objects may also consider customer billing preferences which may be explicit. Billing preferences may describe what sort of bill the customer would like to pay. In various embodiments a customer s billing preferences may be tied to the amount of control over customer load objects that the customer is willing to cede to the utility. For example if a customer expresses a preference for a lowest and or most consistent bill the customer may be required to make a threshold portion of the customer s load objects utility controlled. On the other hand if the customer is willing to pay a higher or more variable bill the customer may retain control over all of its load objects e.g. the customer s load objects may all remain customer controlled load objects . Various gradations between these two scenarios may also be available. According to various embodiments the customer may retain the ability to override an instruction from an OE object . For example if an OE object instructs the customer s thermostat to rise to 75 in the month of July the customer may override and set the thermostat back to 72 . This may cause the OE objects to re balance and may also cause the customer s periodic bill to be higher than otherwise forecast. By choosing to override the OE object and the previously selected customer billing preferences the customer may be essentially retaining control over all of its load objects. According to various embodiments an override command from a customer may be permanent or temporary. For example an override command may be effective for a predetermined time period e.g. 6 hours one day etc. . In some embodiments an override command from a customer may be effective until the next auction is schedule to allocate grid resources to the customer.

In addition to customer preferences the OE objects may consider utility preferences. Like customer preferences utility preferences may be both explicit and implicit. Implicit utility preferences may be determined through price observation by a monitoring OE object . For example the OE object may receive information describing the net energy power and capacitance that may be provided and or transmitted by each dependent generation object transmission object distribution object or other utility controlled grid object as well as for example a cost to operate each object e.g. total cost marginal cost etc. . The OE object may monitor its dependent grid objects to determine their current state and therefore the cost of current and marginal energy power and or capacitance provided by the objects. Comparing the cost to the price at which the energy power and or capacitance may be sold to a customer may allow the OE object to schedule resources appropriate based on economic signals. For example the cost of providing electricity to a customer may be referred to as an avoided cost plus a transmission cost. The avoided cost plus transmission cost changes frequently sometimes instantaneously based on many factors. The rate schedule charged to customers however often does not change as quickly as the avoided cost plus transmission cost. When differences exist between the avoided cost plus transmission cost and the rate scheduled charged to consumers optimization may be done using customer permission as expressed by billing preferences to control end use devices for example by minimizing any gap between the rate and the avoided cost plus transmission cost at any given time. Also in some embodiments when avoided cost plus transmission cost is greater than the scheduled rate customer usage is minimized. On the other hand in some embodiments when avoided cost plus transmission cost is less than the schedule rate customer usage may not be minimized e.g. except to stay within customer billing preferences .

Explicit utility preferences may be received directly by one or more of the OE objects and may for example define which party s preferences control the calculations of the OE objects . For example an explicit utility preference may include an indication of an anomalous grid event such as a particular transmission line being taken out of service for a given time period or a recovery from an outage indicating a need for a cold load pick up scheme e.g. a staggered pick up of the load to prevent damage to the supply side equipment . Also an explicit utility preference may be to avoid negative grid conditions e.g. brown outs black outs . For example if the utility is experiencing peak demand and must curtail customer load in order to avoid a brown out the various OE objects may receive this preference information and adjust optimizations accordingly. For example in such a situation the utility s resources may be prioritized to allow the OE objects to shed load perform limited outages and or manage outage recovery in an optimal manner. Another example utility preference may be related to phase. For example the utility preference may indicate a desire to balance load objects across all three phases of distribution lines. In some embodiments the utility may also help customers lower their bills by participating in Independent System Operator ISO Regional Transmission Organization RTO markets for example using strategies such as frequency regulation or arbitrage.

Each OE object may determine an optimal configuration of its dependent objects given its inputs. illustrates one embodiment of a process flow illustrating a process that may be implemented by any of the OE objects to optimize its dependent objects. The process flow may be referred to herein as an auction. It will be appreciated however that the process flow may be implemented as described using any suitable optimization algorithm including auction based and non auction based algorithms.

At the OE object may receive schedules of net resource and or demands from its dependent objects. From dependent objects that are also OE objects the OE object may receive a schedule of net resources and or demands indicating a balance or imbalance of commodities from the dependent OE object s own optimization calculations. In various embodiments the dependent OE object s own optimization calculations may have been generated according to the process flow in response to an instruction from the OE object . From dependent objects that are non OE objects e.g. customer or utility controlled generation transmission and or load objects the OE object may receive a schedule of net resources from generation and transmission objects and a schedule of net demand from load objects. A schedule of net resources may indicate the energy power and or capacitance production or transmission capability of the generation or transmission object. A schedule of net demands may indicate the energy power and or capacitance consumption required by load objects. According to various embodiments the OE object may also receive from each object a degree to which net resources and or demands are modifiable by the OE object .

At the OE object may receive customer billing preference data for example as described herein. Customer consumption preference data may received e.g. explicit customer preference data and or derived e.g. implicit customer preference data at . Utility preference data may be received e.g. explicit utility preference data and or derived e.g. implicit utility preference data at . It will be appreciated that in some embodiments the OE object may receive implicit customer and or utility preference data that has been derived by another component or device e.g. another OE object another computer device etc. .

At the OE object may optimize the resources and demand of its dependent objects considering the customer and utility preferences. According to various embodiments the optimal solution may be determined considering the prices of resources provided e.g. energy power capacitance etc. . Prices may be used to convert the amount of electricity available demand or provided supply into a financial result that can be compared and prioritized. Any suitable pricing scheme may be utilized. For example in some embodiments electricity may be priced at a flat rate per kilowatt hour kWh . In these embodiments energy and capacitance may not be considered in determining price. However the OE object may consider energy and capacitance generation capacity and expense in determining an optimal allocation. For example a solution that requires the utility to provide electricity at a price per kWh that does not cover its costs in generating the associated power energy and or capacitance may not be considered optimal. In other embodiments each dimension of generated electricity e.g. energy power and capacitance may have a separate price. Temporal pricing may also be used. For example different quantities may have different prices at different times. Also it will be appreciated that in some embodiments different prices may be assigned to different generation objects e.g. depending on the respective costs of production . Also for example if a portion of the grid is about to island the logical equivalent for the OE object may detect the change in power grid using updated GIS information and allow the new island to have different pricing than the grid as a whole. Pricing data may be provided to each OE object for example by the utility by an independent system operator ISO and or by a customer. For example each party may set prices for resources under its control. It will be appreciated that any other suitable pricing scheme may be utilized by the various OE objects during optimization including for example embedded cost time of use TOU rates system wide day ahead hourly price schedules zonal location based marginal pricing LBMP .

The optimization may be calculated at according to any suitable optimization method or algorithm including for example auction and or game theory based algorithms regression analysis or option theory. Optimization algorithms may also utilize combinatorial optimization dynamic programming evolutionary algorithms stochastic optimization neural networks fuzzy logic some combination of the above etc. Also it will be appreciated that the optimal solution for any given set of dependent objects may include control commands issued by the OE object to its dependent objects to activate deactivate and or modify the operation of utility controlled objects. For example a generation object may be activated deactivated and or its generation level may be changed. Also for example a utility controlled load object such as a customer air conditioner may be turned on turned off or have its operating state changes e.g. by changing a thermostat setting . Control commands may be provided directly to a utility controlled object. In some embodiments control commands may be provided to a dependent OE object . Such a dependent OE object may then re execute the process flow in view of the control commands. After determining the optimization and issuing and or scheduling implementing control commands each OE object may report its resulting balance or imbalance of commodities to a peer and or superior OE object. It will be appreciated that the highest OE object in the hierarchy cannot report an imbalance of commodities. Also for example if the highest OE object in the hierarchy has an imbalance of commodities some or all of the OE objects may re execute the process flow to determine optimal settings in view of the overall lack of balance. This process may be repeated throughout the system until a satisfactory optimization level is reached. In some embodiments a satisfactory optimization level may indicate match between all generated and consumed resources.

According to various embodiments each OE object may execute the process flow according to any temporal interval. For example each OE object may repeatedly and continuously execute the process flow each time with the most recent information. Also in some embodiments each OE object may execute the process flow periodically e.g. every day every hour every ten minutes etc. . In various embodiments where the process flow is calculated periodically control commands resulting from optimization may be scheduled for a future time e.g. the deactivation of a particular generation object may be scheduled at a certain time and or when load drops below a certain value .

After executing the process flow an individual OE object may be balanced may have a negative imbalance of commodities e.g. it needs additional supply or may have a positive imbalance of commodities e.g. it can provide additional supply . To balance the complete hierarchy or electric grid a positive or negative imbalance of commodities may be inherited by locally connected superior and peer OE objects that may be able to fulfill the need or purchase the available commodity. For example illustrates one embodiment of a logical hierarchy of grid objects illustrating the inheritance of balances of commodities. As illustrated an OE object comprises a dependent load or demand side object and a dependent generation or supply side object . The supply side object generates one hundred 100 units while the demand side object consumes one hundred twenty five 125 units. Accordingly the imbalance of commodities at the OE object is negative twenty five 25 units. An OE object comprises a dependent consuming object and a dependent producing object . The imbalance of commodities at the OE object is negative one hundred 100 units. In various embodiments the OE engines and may report their imbalances of commodities to the OE object from which and depend. OE engine may then optimize the results of the OE objects resulting in an imbalance of commodities at the OE objection of negative one hundred twenty five 125 . Likewise an OE object may have an imbalance of commodities of positive one hundred twenty five 125 . OE objects and may both depend on OE object which may optimize the outputs of the OE objects resulting in balance.

According to various embodiments dependencies between OE objects may be determined on the fly based on communications and or transmission costs. For example a local OE object having a positive or negative imbalance of commodities may communicate that balance to other local OE objects including for example those at a higher level in an object hierarchy. The cost to communicate resources between non OE objects may be considered as an aspect of the commodity value or cost . Communications costs to transfer data between OE objects may also be considered. Each OE object may determine whether to invite other engines to participate in a local auction implementation of the process flow if participation is not cost prohibitive. Also according to various embodiments less than all of the objects directly or indirectly depending from an OE object may take place in an auction implemented by the OE object. For example if communication or transmission costs associated with a particular dependent object are too high the dependent object may be omitted from consideration.

According to various embodiments any OE object may call an auction involving inferior objects e.g. objects directly or indirectly dependent on the calling OE object . An OE object may not be able to call an auction involving superior objects e.g. objects that the calling OE object depends on directly or indirectly . In various embodiments the OE object calling an auction may determine the time frame of the resources to be auctioned e.g. one hour one day etc. sum all supply side resources available including price offered for these resources calculate the total demand side need including the prices willing to be paid for the resources and run the auction subject to all participant constraints. For example the requesting OE object may implement the auction process flow .

Although an OE object may implement an auction involving any object directly or indirectly depending from the OE object in various embodiments auction participation may be limited to object that are one step removed and below the calling OE object on the object hierarchy i.e. objects that directly depend on the calling object . Accordingly auctions may be implemented as a cascading set of events pushed down to inferior objects and triggered by a superior object. When the inferior objects are OE objects the cascading set of events pushed down may result in a corresponding set of commodities balances and preferences pushed back up. This process may be repeated throughout the system until a satisfactory optimization level is reached.

According to various embodiments objects called to an auction must be physically interconnected on the grid or in a customer s premise at the time of command execution e.g. during implementation of the power or energy reduction . In some embodiments objects called to auction may or may not be physically connected to the grid during the auction. For example an electric vehicle may be on its way home while an auction for energy needed to charge it in the next hour is taking place including the OE engine residing at a home location for the vehicle . As described above individual auctions below the root auction need not balance. Accordingly an auction may comprise only sellers e.g. supply or utility objects only buyers e.g. customer or load objects or some combination of both. Sellers may provide different kinds of resources e.g. energy power or capacitance . As described above these quantities may be priced separately or collectively. Demand provided by buyers in various embodiments may not be limited to the available supply. When an inferior or dependent object takes part in a valid auction it may pass to the conducting OE object any constraints e.g. results of the OE object s own auction . For example demand side objects may include preferences for determining how much load is available for control and whether the object can shed load or shift load to a future time period. Supply side objects may include preferences that describe production limits for the time period considered by the auction.

Once all desired and or appropriate objects have been joined to an auction the resource needs calculated and the constraints registered the auction may begin e.g. the calling OE object may optimize in view of the participating objects as at . If the auction cannot successfully resolve by satisfying all demand by an equal amount of supply the excess supply or demand e.g. an imbalance of commodities may be pushed up to the next interconnected superior object. If there are no superior nodes to handle excess demand and not enough resources available to satisfy the imbalance dependent or inferior objects may be instructed to curtail demand for the resource for example beginning with the lowest unconstrained bidder. If there are no superior nodes to handle excess supply and not enough demand is available to satisfy the imbalance then supply resources may be instructed to curtail production beginning with the most expensive unconstrained supply source. In this way the auction process may resolve in a recursive manner when there is an imbalance between supply and demand successively promoting imbalance amounts to superior nodes in an effort to find matching resources to balance supply and demand.

Referring now to the OE object may initiate an auction and may set the time period of resources to be auctioned which may be communicated to OE objects which depend on OE object . Because neither OE object nor OE object comprise supply or demand of their own the auction instruction may be pushed down. For example OE engine may implement an auction indicated as Auction C considering its dependent objects . As indicated above the imbalance of commodities from this auction may be one hundred twenty five 125 units. As illustrated none of the objects comprise supply or demand of their own so the auction instruction to OE object may be pushed down to OE objects which may conduct Auction A and Auction B respectively. Auction A considering objects and may have an imbalance of commodities equal to negative twenty five 25 while Auction B considering objects may have an imbalance of commodities equal to negative one hundred 100 .

Referring now to the auction instruction from OE object still may not be implemented because OE object has neither direct supply or demand capacity nor a net balance or imbalance of commodities. Accordingly OE object may implement Auction D utilizing the constraints and net balances of commodities received from the Auctions A and B. The result may be a net imbalance of commodities equal to negative one hundred twenty five 125 units. At this point the original auction instruction from OE object may be implemented utilizing the inherited constraints and balances of commodities from the Auctions D and C resulting in a balanced state at OE object .

It can be seen that the needs and preferences of suppliers may be met by introducing the suppliers to objects capable of supplying their needs either partially or collectively. According to various embodiments however there may be a significant difference between limiting factors of suppliers and customers. This is illustrated by . The needs or demand of the load objects are aggregated moving from the load objects toward the generation side of the grid e.g. the top of the hierarchy . On the other hand moving from the generation side to the load side the availability of generated commodities is dispersed.

As described herein certain objects may be described by past present and projected future load generation capacity and or cost. According to various embodiments projected future load generation capacity and or price may be determined by considering multi dimensional panel data. For example illustrates a chart showing one embodiment of multi dimensional panel data that may be utilized e.g. by an OE object to project future load generation capacity and or cost. For example each panel may comprise indications of historic data indicating prior factors that have the potential to affect load demand generation capacity and or cost. For example panel indicates kWh consumed plotted by year and object H1 H2 etc. . Panel indicates temperature plotted by year and object. Panel indicates price plotted by year and object. A projected future load generation capacity and or cost may be found by projecting one or more of the variables indicated by panels and finding like values in other panels having similar conditions. For example arrow indicates an example use of panel data for a January weekday for a specific residential load object H2 . Present and future values for load demand may be estimated and or forecast based on data available for the same time one hear prior the same time one year prior etc. In this way panel data tables for present and future values may be populated dynamically. Similarly model stability may be increased by driving regression coefficients among variables used to populate the missing data and validate existing data in the panels. In various embodiments this methodology may increase the reliability and stability of the system e.g. using history kWh and observed temperature to determine the future object load forecast while validating the existing load.

The utility or supply pyramid may represent utility owned or manages resources e.g. generation transmission and or distribution resources . Utility needs or preferences may be considered to move in the direction of arrow with optimal solutions between customer demand and utility needs being determined and in some embodiments implemented by the OE objects represented by arrow . The logical structure of the utility pyramid may be provided by the grid and the communications network described above with respect to . For example the grid and the communications network may be logically interconnected to provide physical constraints on the hierarchy of resources available to serve the customer pyramid . Both of the pyramids may be dynamic e.g. the grid and communications system may be changed and updated and multi layered vertically as well as horizontally connected . The GIS system may provide each OE object with a list of locally connected resources and communications paths e.g. related to dependent or potentially dependent objects . According to various embodiments dependencies between different objects may be determined at least in part by the objects relative positions on the supply side pyramid or demand side pyramid .

As described herein the OE objects may comprise inheritance features allowing the OE objects to determine inheritance functionality for sensing the state of other objects connected thereto. illustrates one embodiment of a pair of premises showing object inheritance between premises. For example a customer may move from the premise to the premise . The properties of the customer s appliances may retained by the assigned OE object. A home energy controller HEC at one or both of the premises may update the assigned OE object of appliance changes. For example relative to the premise the premise may have a new air conditioner and a gas rather than electric water heater. Similarly if the customer makes appliance changes at a single premise these changes may be communicated to the assigned OE object e.g. via an HEC .

According to various embodiments parameters of auctions initiated by the OE engines may be modified based on conditions of the grid . For example the grid may experience intentional or unintentional anomalous conditions. An example of an intentional anomalous condition may be a scheduled shut down of a generation or transmission object. An example of an unintentional anomalous condition may be an equipment failure or natural accident e.g. storm that causes a failure in a piece of generation transmission or distribution equipment. In various embodiments when an anomalous condition occurs each OE engine may be instructed to switch control of auctions to demand side objects. For example in such a circumstance supply side objects may not be permitted to call an auction. This may ensure that utility preferences are granted priority over customer preferences. This may be desirable for example when due to a shut down or failure granting customer preferences as usual may cause a brown out or black out. In another example if a portion of the grid has suffered an outage it may not be desirable to restore power to the entire portion of the grid simultaneously as this may put a dangerous load on supply side equipment. Accordingly during a restoration event auction initiation may be limited to supply side objects to ensure that power is restored smoothly. This may be referred to as a cold load pick up scheme.

According to various embodiments the OE objects may be implemented in a form that is executable on many different kinds of hardware operating systems etc. For example OE objects may be implemented by any type of computing device including for example a server a router a mobile computing device e.g. mobile phone palmtop computer netbook etc. . Also in various embodiments the OE objects described herein may be designed to be flexible and agnostic to different pricing and or optimization schemes. For example the OE objects themselves may serve as a platform allowing other applications to operate on top similar to the operating system of a computer. In another example utility preferences may be modified to implement many different cold load pick up schemes. Any other suitable form of application may be implemented in conjunction with the OE objects. For example a measurement and verification scheme may be implemented to monitor energy efficiency efforts. Applications such as these and others may be easily added or removed from the platform e.g. from each OE object in a plug and play fashion. Also in various embodiments the OE objects may be agnostic as to the actual algorithms chosen for pricing forecasting prioritization or optimization. In various embodiments different utilities may implement the OE objects using or not using which ever algorithms the utilities determine.

According to various embodiments the systems and methods described herein may also be implemented to achieve certain security related advantages. For example security of the system may be established using the electric grid hierarchy and customer preference. Thus only objects at a superior level e.g. closer to generation on the utility side may be allowed to aggregate properties. Similarly only devices which are available for OE object control maybe aggregated on the customer side. Additionally OE objects may partition the methods of each superior object from an inferior object avoiding inheritance of information where disallowed.

The examples presented herein are intended to illustrate potential and specific implementations of the present invention. It can be appreciated that the examples are intended primarily for purposes of illustration of the invention for those skilled in the art. No particular aspect or aspects of the examples are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the present invention. For example no particular aspect or aspects of the examples of system architectures methods or processing structures described herein are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the invention. Also while specific optimization algorithms and inheritance procedures are described herein it will be appreciated that the applications provided according to the description herein may include other optimizations and inheritance procedures as well.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating for purposes of clarity other elements. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize however that these sorts of focused descriptions would not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention and therefore a more detailed description of such elements is not provided herein.

Moreover the processes associated with the present example embodiments e.g. optimization engines and other objects may be executed by programmable equipment such as computers. Software or other sets of instructions may be employed to cause programmable equipment to execute the processes. The processes may be stored in any storage device such as for example a computer system non volatile memory an optical disk magnetic tape or magnetic disk. Furthermore some of the processes may be programmed when the computer system is manufactured or via a computer readable memory medium.

It can also be appreciated that certain process aspects described herein may be performed using instructions stored on a computer readable memory medium or media that direct a computer or computer system to perform process steps. A computer readable medium may include for example any non transitory media such as for example memory devices such as diskettes compact discs of both read only and read write varieties optical disk drives and hard disk drives. A computer readable medium may also include memory storage that may be physical virtual permanent temporary semi permanent and or semi temporary. It will be appreciated that the term non transitory refers to the medium and not to any data stored thereon. For example a random access memory RAM is non transitory although the data stored thereon may change regularly.

A computer machine computer device host engine or processor may be for example and without limitation a processor microcomputer minicomputer server mainframe laptop personal data assistant PDA wireless e mail device cellular phone pager processor fax machine scanner or any other programmable device configured to transmit and or receive data over a network. Computer systems and computer based devices disclosed herein may include memory for storing certain software applications used in obtaining processing and communicating information. It can be appreciated that such memory may be internal or external with respect to operation of the disclosed example embodiments. The memory may also include any means for storing software including a hard disk an optical disk floppy disk ROM read only memory RAM random access memory PROM programmable ROM EEPROM electrically erasable PROM and or other computer readable memory media.

In various example embodiments of the present invention a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative to practice embodiments of the present invention such substitution is within the scope of the present invention. Any of the servers or computer systems described herein for example may be replaced by a server farm or other grouping of networked servers e.g. a group of server blades that are located and configured for cooperative functions. It can be appreciated that a server farm may serve to distribute workload between among individual components of the farm and may expedite computing processes by harnessing the collective and cooperative power of multiple servers. Such server farms may employ load balancing software that accomplishes tasks such as for example tracking demand for processing power from different machines prioritizing and scheduling tasks based on network demand and or providing backup contingency in the event of component failure or reduction in operability.

Various example embodiments of the systems and methods described herein may employ one or more electronic computer networks to promote communication among different components transfer data or to share resources and information. Such computer networks can be classified according to the hardware and software technology that is used to interconnect the devices in the network such as optical fiber Ethernet wireless LAN HomePNA power line communication or G.hn. The computer networks may also be embodied as one or more of the following types of networks local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN storage area network SAN or global area network GAN among other network varieties.

For example a WAN computer network may cover a broad area by linking communications across metropolitan regional or national boundaries. The network may use routers and or public communication links. One type of data communication network may cover a relatively broad geographic area e.g. city to city or country to country which uses transmission facilities provided by common carriers such as telephone service providers. In another example a GAN computer network may support mobile communications across multiple wireless LANs or satellite networks. In another example a VPN computer network may include links between nodes carried by open connections or virtual circuits in another network e.g. the Internet instead of by physical wires. The link layer protocols of the VPN can be tunneled through the other network. One VPN application can promote secure communications through the Internet. The VPN can also be used to separately and securely conduct the traffic of different user communities over an underlying network. The VPN may provide users with the virtual experience of accessing the network through an IP address location other than the actual IP address which connects the access device to the network.

Computer networks may include hardware elements to interconnect network nodes such as network interface cards NICs or Ethernet cards repeaters bridges hubs switches routers and other like components. Such elements may be physically wired for communication and or data connections may be provided with microwave links e.g. IEEE 802.12 or fiber optics for example. A network card network adapter or NIC can be designed to allow computers to communicate over the computer network by providing physical access to a network and an addressing system through the use of MAC addresses for example. A repeater can be embodied as an electronic device that receives and retransmits a communicated signal at a boosted power level to allow the signal to cover a telecommunication distance with reduced degradation. A network bridge can be configured to connect multiple network segments at the data link layer of a computer network while learning which addresses can be reached through which specific ports of the network. In the network the bridge may associate a port with an address and then send traffic for that address only to that port. In various example embodiments local bridges may be employed to directly connect local area networks LANs remote bridges can be used to create a wide area network WAN link between LANs and or wireless bridges can be used to connect LANs and or to connect remote stations to LANs.

In various example embodiments a hub may be employed which contains multiple ports. For example when a data packet arrives at one port of a hub the packet can be copied unmodified to all ports of the hub for transmission. A network switch or other devices that forward and filter OSI layer 2 datagrams between ports based on MAC addresses in data packets can also be used. A switch can possess multiple ports such that most of the network is connected directly to the switch or another switch that is in turn connected to a switch. The term switch can also include routers and bridges as well as other devices that distribute data traffic by application content e.g. a Web URL identifier . Switches may operate at one or more OSI model layers including physical data link network or transport i.e. end to end . A device that operates simultaneously at more than one of these layers can be considered a multilayer switch. In certain example embodiments routers or other like networking devices may be used to forward data packets between networks using headers and forwarding tables to determine an optimum path through which to transmit the packets.

As employed herein an application server may be a server that hosts an API to expose business logic and business processes for use by other applications. Examples of application servers include J2EE or Java EE 5 application servers including WebSphere Application Server. Other examples include WebSphere Application Server Community Edition IBM Sybase Enterprise Application Server Sybase Inc WebLogic Server BEA JBoss Red Hat JRun Adobe Systems Apache Geronimo Apache Software Foundation Oracle OC4J Oracle Corporation Sun Java System Application Server Sun Microsystems and SAP Netweaver AS ABAP Java . Also application servers may be provided in accordance with the .NET framework including the Windows Communication Foundation .NET Remoting ADO.NET and ASP.NET among several other components. For example a Java Server Page JSP is a servlet that executes in a web container which is functionally equivalent to CGI scripts. JSPs can be used to create HTML pages by embedding references to the server logic within the page. The application servers may mainly serve web based applications while other servers can perform as session initiation protocol servers for instance or work with telephony networks. Specifications for enterprise application integration and service oriented architecture can be designed to connect many different computer network elements. Such specifications include Business Application Programming Interface Web Services Interoperability and Java EE Connector Architecture.

While various example embodiments of the invention have been described herein it should be apparent however that various modifications alterations and adaptations to those embodiments may occur to persons skilled in the art with the attainment of some or all of the advantages of the present invention. The disclosed example embodiments are therefore intended to include all such modifications alterations and adaptations without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

