---

title: Secure migration of virtual machines
abstract: Technologies are generally described for the secure live migration of virtual machines. The migration may take place in the context of, for example, public clouds. In various embodiments, by using a hidden process incorporated in a virtual machine's kernel and a trusted wireless and/or wired positioning service, a cloud provider and/or cloud user may be alerted about possible virtual machine hijacking/theft. The provider or user may also be provided with an approximate physical location of the platform running the compromised virtual machine for further investigation and enforcement measures.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09054917&OS=09054917&RS=09054917
owner: EMPIRE TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT LLC
number: 09054917
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120308
---
This application is the National Stage filing under 35 U.S.C 371 of International Application No. PCT US2012 028333 filed Mar. 8 2012 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Cloud computing refers to a computing environment for enabling on demand network access to a shared pool of computing resources. Many cloud computing services involve virtualized resources and may take the form of web based tools or applications that users can access and use through a web browser as if they were programs installed locally on their own computers. The data stored for users of such systems are typically hosted in computing systems located in a computing data center. The location for such a data center may be selected to provide easy access to the data from the users of the remote presentation system.

One benefit of server virtualization technology in cloud computing is virtual machine migration. The ability to migrate a virtual machine from one physical host to another can significantly boost a company s disaster recovery efforts and improve business agility. Migration may also be useful when an administrator needs to shut down a physical server for maintenance or upgrades because such server downtimes no longer result in application downtime.

Virtual machine live migration allows for the migration of a virtual machine from one physical host to another without significantly interrupting application availability. Live migration may involve capturing a virtual machine s complete memory state and the state of all its processor registers and sending that data to memory space on another server. That server may then load the processor registers and the virtual machine can pick up where it left off.

However when users and administrators do not follow virtualization best practices for virtual machine migration the virtual machine infrastructure can be susceptible to security risks. For example migrating a virtual machine with customer credit card data to a host that also runs a public web server may violate the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard. Without having a proper change management system in place virtual machine migration can also violate corporate policies. When a virtual machine is migrated management software provisioning software and integrated process management tools can help address such security and compliance concerns.

Such concerns include account or service hijacking phishing fraud and exploitation of software vulnerabilities. Credentials and passwords are often reused which amplifies the impact of such attacks. Cloud services add a new threat to the landscape. For example if an attacker gains access to user administrator credentials the attacker can eavesdrop on user administrator activities and transactions manipulate data return falsified information and redirect user clients to illegitimate sites. User account or service instances may then become a new base for the attacker. From there attackers can leverage the power of user reputation to launch subsequent attacks.

Disclosed herein are methods and systems for the secure live migration of virtual machines in public clouds. The migration may take place in the context of for example public clouds. In various embodiments by using a hidden process incorporated in a virtual machine s kernel and a trusted wireless and or wired positioning service a cloud provider and or cloud user may be alerted about possible virtual machine hijacking theft. The provider or user may also be provided with an approximate physical location of the platform running the compromised virtual machine for further investigation and enforcement measures.

In some embodiments a method for migrating a virtual machine may include receiving a request to migrate a virtual machine from a source host to a target host. In an embodiment it may be determined whether the geographic location of the target host is within a predetermined perimeter. The determining may be based on location information received from a positioning service. Based on the determination the migration of the virtual machine to the target host may be allowed or denied.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the Figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods reagents compounds compositions or biological systems which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

In an illustrative embodiment any of the operations processes etc. described herein can be implemented as computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable medium. The computer readable instructions can be executed by a processor of a mobile unit a network element and or any other computing device.

There is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. There are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that for this and other processes and methods disclosed herein the functions performed in the processes and methods may be implemented in differing order. Furthermore the outlined steps and operations are only provided as examples and some of the steps and operations may be optional combined into fewer steps and operations or expanded into additional steps and operations without detracting from the essence of the disclosed embodiments.

Generally guest operating systems through can include any operating system such as for example operating systems from Microsoft Apple the open source community etc. The guest operating systems can include user kernel modes of operation and can have kernels that can include schedulers memory managers etc. A kernel mode can include an execution mode in a logical processor that grants access to privileged processor instructions. Each guest operating system through can have associated file systems that can have applications stored thereon such as terminal servers e commerce servers email servers etc. or the guest operating systems themselves. Guest operating systems through can schedule threads to execute on virtual processors through and instances of such applications can be effectuated.

The computing resources provided by data centers may be enabled by one or more individual data centers. Data centers may be facilities utilized to house and operate computer systems and associated components. Data centers may include redundant and backup power communications cooling and security systems. Data centers may also be located in geographically disparate locations.

The customers and other consumers of data centers may access the computing resources provided by data centers over a network . It should be appreciated that a local area network LAN the Internet or any other networking topology known in the art that connects data centers to remote consumers may be utilized. It should also be appreciated that combinations of such networks might also be utilized.

A user computer may be a computer utilized by a customer or other consumer of data centers . For instance user computer may be a server computer a desktop or laptop personal computer a thin client a tablet computer a wireless telephone a personal digital assistant PDA an e reader a game console or any other computing device capable of accessing data centers .

User computer may be utilized to configure aspects of the computing resources provided by data centers or access services provided by data centers . For example data centers may provide a Web interface through which aspects of its operation may be configured or accessed through the use of a Web browser application program executing on user computer . Alternatively a stand alone application program executing on user computer might access an application programming interface API exposed by data centers for accessing the computing resources or performing the configuration operations. Other mechanisms for configuring the operation of data centers including deploying updates to an application or accessing the computing resources might also be utilized.

In one embodiment processes may be virtual machine instances. A virtual machine instance may be an instance of a software implementation of a machine i.e. a computer that executes programs much like a physical machine that executes programs. In the example of virtual machine instances each of servers may be configured to execute a virtualization manager capable of executing the instances. The virtualization manager might be a hypervisor or another type of virtualization program configured to enable the execution of processes on servers for example.

It should be appreciated that although some of the embodiments disclosed herein are discussed in the context of virtual machine instances other types of instances can be utilized with the concepts and technologies disclosed herein. For example the technologies disclosed herein might be utilized with instances of storage resources processing resources data communications resources and with other types of resources. The embodiments disclosed herein might also be utilized with computing systems that do not utilize virtual machine instances i.e. that use a combination of physical machines and virtual machines.

In the example data center shown in a LAN is utilized to interconnect server computers . It should be appreciated that the network topology illustrated in has been simplified and that many more networks and networking devices may be utilized to interconnect the various computing systems disclosed herein. Appropriate load balancing devices or software modules might also be utilized for balancing a load between data centers between each of server computers in a data center and between processes . These network topologies and devices should be apparent to those skilled in the art.

Cloud computing generally refers to a computing environment for enabling on demand network access to a shared pool of computing resources e.g. applications servers and storage such as those described above. Such a computing environment may be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. Cloud computing services typically do not require end user knowledge of the physical location and configuration of the system that delivers the services. The services may be consumption based and delivered via the Internet. Many cloud computing services involve virtualized resources such as those described above and may take the form of web based tools or applications that users can access and use through a web browser as if they were programs installed locally on their own computers.

Cloud computing services are typically built on a suitable computing platform. For some applications such as those running inside an organization s data center this platform may include an operating system and a data storage service configured to store data. Applications running in the cloud may utilize a similar platform.

When users and administrators do not follow virtualization best practices for virtual machine migration the virtual machine infrastructure can be susceptible to security risks. For example migrating a virtual machine with customer credit card data to a host that also runs a public web server may violate the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard. Without having a proper change management system in place virtual machine migration can also violate corporate policies. When a virtual machine is migrated management software provisioning software and integrated process management tools can help address such security and compliance concerns.

Such concerns can include account or service hijacking phishing fraud and exploitation of software vulnerabilities. Credentials and passwords are often reused which amplifies the impact of such attacks. Cloud computing services add a new threat to the landscape. For example if an attacker gains access to user administrator credentials the attacker can eavesdrop on user administrator activities and transactions manipulate data return falsified information and redirect user clients to illegitimate sites. User account or service instances may become a new base for the attacker. From there attackers can leverage the power of user reputation to launch subsequent attacks.

Hardware and software technologies that enable the construction and utilization of trusted platforms are generally described herein. In some embodiments a trusted platform module TPM chip may be bundled with commodity hardware. The TPM may include an endorsement private key EK that uniquely identifies the TPM and thus the physical host. The TPM may also include cryptographic functions that cannot be modified. The manufacturer can sign the corresponding public key to guarantee the correctness of the chip and validity of the key.

Trusted platforms may leverage the features of TPM chips to enable remote attestation. In some examples at boot time the host may compute a measurement list consisting of a sequence of hashes of the software involved in the boot sequence e.g. the BIOS the bootloader and the software implementing the platform . The measurement list may be securely stored inside the host s TPM. To attest to the platform a remote party may challenge the platform running at the host with a nonce e.g. a sequence used to sign a cryptographic communication . The platform may request the local TPM to create a message containing both the measurement list and the nonce. The message may be encrypted with the TPM s private EK. The host may then send the message back to the remote party who may then decrypt the message using the EK s corresponding public key thereby authenticating the host. By checking that the nonces match and that the measurement list corresponds to a configuration that is deemed to be trusted a remote party can identify the platform on an untrusted host.

One problem is that during live migration of a virtual machine located in the cloud the virtual machine can be hijacked and stolen as described above by a malicious administrator insider or a hacker who has acquired administrator credentials. In such a case the stolen virtual machine or even the platform hardware itself can be moved to unknown or unregistered physical locations within or outside of the geographical jurisdiction perimeter authorized by the cloud provider and or the service level agreement SLA . The attacker may then start running the stolen virtual machine via the same virtual IP address using a proxy service that can be set up by the same malicious administrator insider or a hacker at the original server location. The attacker can then extract confidential information impersonate the cloud provider or user and eventually damage their business reputation. Such malicious administrators insiders can perform all of the above activities without the cloud provider s or cloud user s knowledge and with little chance of being caught especially if the stolen virtual machine has been moved to other jurisdictions. The above risks can make companies hesitant to move to new cloud providers or even use cloud computing services at all.

In some embodiments by using a hidden process incorporated in the virtual machine s kernel and a trusted wireless and or wired positioning service the cloud provider and or cloud user may be alerted about possible virtual machine hijacking theft and provided with an approximate physical location of the platform running the stolen virtual machine for further investigation and enforcement measures.

By helping to solve the above security issues a greater level of security may be provided to cloud computing providers and additional assurances provided to cloud users who have been otherwise hesitant to use cloud computing services or move to new cloud providers.

VM applications may include applications and services that are configured to execute on the VM. VM kernel may be a core component of the VM operating system and configured to provide primary operating system functions such as resource management.

Hidden process may be a virtual machine kernel level process which may be used to assist the target host verification process. For example hidden process may be configured to prevent execution of a virtual machine in situations in which a hacker has obtained an unauthorized copy of a virtual machine and is attempting to run the virtual machine on a hardware platform that has not incorporated positioning hardware or does not have the proper hardware configuration as determined by TR TMP . If a hacker manages to acquire the decryption key and attempts to execute the unauthorized virtual machine hidden process may check the hardware configuration and physical location in collaboration with positioning service .

In one embodiment during initialization processing hidden process may start searching for wireless devices connected to target host platform and trace their IP addresses in order to determine the physical location of the nearest wireless device. In the case of an incorrect configuration and or unauthorized physical location hidden process may send an alert to the cloud provider and or the cloud user about the possible hijacking theft of the virtual machine and provide an approximate physical location of the platform running the stolen virtual machine for further investigation and enforcement measures. The approximate physical location may be based on information received from positioning hardware and or positioning service .

Migration manager may be configured to control the virtual machine migration process including triggering the attestation process and requesting software hardware upgrades if the target platform fails the attestation. Attestation manager may be configured to cryptographically identify a target host to ascertain that the target host will properly run the virtual machine that is to be migrated. VM manager may be configured to provide operating system management and protection of the runtime memory and storage.

Rule engine may be configured to implement cloud provider rules and policies related to virtual machine migration. For example rules and policies may be related to rights and credentials required to migrate virtual machines as well as the target host platforms IDs and the physical locations allowed to run migrated virtual machines. Encryption engine may be configured to encrypt data including generating a hash of the trusted boot OS with the private key stored in TR TMP .

Location engine may be configured to assist the attestation process by verifying that target host platform is within the cloud provider s geographical jurisdiction perimeter based on the geographical physical location information received from positioning hardware and or positioning service . The cloud provider s geographical jurisdiction perimeter may be defined for example by country or region radius from a defined location a list of authorized devices a geographic perimeter or any other method for specifying allowable locations for a target host platform. If the verification process fails target host platform will not pass the attestation and the migrated virtual machine which is not decrypted will not be able to run on target host platform .

TR TMP may be configured to provide support for secure virtual machine migration to physical platforms in public clouds. For example TR TMP may be configured to provide encryption functionality and store keys and other confidential information. TR TMP may ensure reliable attestation of the target physical platform e.g. target host platform where a virtual machine is to be migrated.

For example TR TMP may include an endorsement private key that uniquely identifies TR TMP and thus the physical host. TR TMP may also include cryptographic functions that cannot be modified by a user. The hardware manufacturer can sign the corresponding public key to guarantee the correctness of the chip and validity of the key. In some embodiments TR TMP may further include positioning hardware . By including positioning hardware in TR TMP a hacker may be prevented from tampering or replacing positioning hardware and thus providing a false position indication. In other embodiments positioning hardware may be separate from TR TMP .

Positioning hardware may comprise a device capable of providing location estimate information. For example a Global Positioning System GPS receiver and or a wireless adapter router may be used. Positioning hardware may allow positioning service to determine the actual physical location of the target host platform .

Positioning hardware may determine location estimates using a variety of position determination methods and systems including the Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS cellular based location estimation and manual data entry. GNSS systems may include any type of satellite based navigation system that provides geo spatial positioning including GPS GLONASS Beidou COMPASS and Galileo.

Positioning service may be a wired or wireless positioning service. Positioning service may be provided by the cloud provider or by an independent trusted service provider. In one embodiment positioning service can use data from Wi Fi access points GPS satellites and cell towers to determine the best possible available location. In an embodiment the device s location may be determined hierarchically for example beginning with a coarse location estimate using GPS or cell towers and refining the initial estimate to arrive at a more precise estimate. Known locations of Wi Fi access points may be used to further refine the position estimate.

Referring to operation begins the operational procedure. Operation may be followed by operation . Operation receive a request to migrate a virtual machine from a source host to a target host illustrates receiving at a computing device a request to migrate a virtual machine from a source host to a target host.

Operation may be followed by operation . Operation geographic location of the target host within a predetermined perimeter illustrates determining whether a geographic location of the target host is within a predetermined perimeter. In one embodiment the determination can be made based on location information received from a positioning service such as positioning service described in . The positioning service may be for example a network based positioning service that determines location of devices based on IP or MAC addresses of network devices whose locations are known. In another embodiment the positioning service may be a GPS based or cellular tower based positioning service.

If it is determined that the geographic location of the target host is within a predetermined perimeter then operation may be followed by operation . Operation allow the migration of the virtual machine to the target host illustrates based on the determining allowing by the computing device the migration of the virtual machine to the target host. Otherwise if it is determined that the geographic location of the target host is not within the predetermined perimeter then in some embodiments operation may be followed by operation . Operation deny the migration of the virtual machine to the target host illustrates based on the determining denying by the computing device the migration of the virtual machine to the target host.

Operation may be followed by operation . Operation geographic location of the target host within a predetermined perimeter and hardware configuration confirmed illustrates in response to a request to migrate a virtual machine from a source host to the target host determining whether a geographic location of the target host is within a predetermined perimeter and whether the hardware configuration of the target host is verified. In one embodiment the target host may include a trusted platform module TPM chip that contains an endorsement private key EK uniquely identifying the target host. In one embodiment the hidden process may compute a measurement list including hashes of software involved in the boot sequence. The TPM chip may send a message containing both the measurement list and a nonce provided by the cloud service provider. The message may be encrypted with the TPM chip s private EK. The cloud service provide may then decrypt the message using the private EK s corresponding public key and verify that the nonce is correct and that the measurement list corresponds to a configuration that is deemed to be trusted.

The predetermined perimeter may include a radius from a geographic point recognizing that users may change locations of hosts from time to time or move virtual machines to various hosts within a geographic area. In some embodiments the predetermined perimeter may include a plurality of regions that may be acceptable locations for hosts. The predetermined perimeter may also be an entire country or region.

In one embodiment the determination whether a geographic location of the target host is within a predetermined perimeter may comprise searching for network devices connected to the target host and determining the physical location by tracing IP addresses. For example various public and private databases store locations of Wifi hotspots and other network devices thus allowing for the tracing of nearby network devices through analysis of message traffic. In some embodiments a record of hopped IP addresses may be recorded for later retrieval or sent along with an alert to aid enforcement and investigation activities as described herein.

Operation may be followed by operation . Operation deny the request to migrate the virtual machine to the target host illustrates denying the request to migrate the virtual machine to the target host. The denying can be based on determining whether the geographic location of the target host is within the predetermined perimeter and verification of the hardware configuration. If it is determined based on the location determination that the target host appears to be located outside of the predetermined perimeter then the request to migrate the virtual machine may be denied. Additionally the failure to verify the configuration of the target host may also be used to determine that the request to migrate the virtual machine should be denied. Otherwise if it is determined that the geographic location of the target host is within the predetermined perimeter then in some embodiments operation may be followed by operation . Operation allow the request to migrate the virtual machine to the target host illustrates based on the determining allowing the migration of the virtual machine to the target host.

In some embodiments the geographic location may be determined based on information received from a network device. Alternatively the geographic location may be determined based on information provided by a geolocation device.

In some embodiments an alert indicating denial of the request may be sent to the user service provider or a selected or predetermined third party such as an enforcement agency. The alert may include an indication of the geographic location of the denied host based on one or more of the methods described herein. In one embodiment the alert may comprise an electronic mail message that includes the best known location of the host attempting to execute the virtual machine and other information that may be useful for tracking and enforcement measures such as a time logged history of user actions.

Operation may be followed by operation . Operation deny the migration of the virtual machine to the target host illustrates based on the determining denying by the computing device the migration of the virtual machine to the target host. Otherwise if it is determined that the geographic location of the target host is within the predetermined perimeter then in some embodiments operation may be followed by operation . Operation allow the migration of the virtual machine to the target host illustrates based on the determining allowing by the computing device the migration of the virtual machine to the target host.

In some embodiments a hidden process configured to verify a hardware configuration of the target host may be executed. In one embodiment the hidden process may be configured to communicate with a trusted platform module to receive information for verification of the hardware configuration. The hidden process may be incorporated in a kernel of the virtual machine as described herein. The hidden process may further comprise sending an alert indicating denial of the request.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a CD a DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely examples and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

Depending on the desired configuration processor may be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor P a microcontroller C a digital signal processor DSP or any combination thereof. Processor may include one more levels of caching such as a level one cache and a level two cache a processor core and registers . An example processor core may include an arithmetic logic unit ALU a floating point unit FPU a digital signal processing core DSP Core or any combination thereof n example memory controller may also be used with processor or in some implementations memory controller may be an internal part of processor .

Depending on the desired configuration system memory may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof. System memory may include an operating system one or more applications and program data . Application may include a virtual machine VM migration method that is arranged to perform the functions as described herein including those described with respect to the processes described for example in and . Program data may include configuration data that may be useful for operation with the virtual machine migration method described above. In some embodiments application may be arranged to operate with program data on operating system such that that implementations of virtual machine migration may be provided as described herein. This described basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within the inner dashed line.

Computing device may have additional features or functionality and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between basic configuration and any required devices and interfaces. For example a bus interface controller may be used to facilitate communications between basic configuration and one or more data storage devices via a storage interface bus . Data storage devices may be removable storage devices non removable storage devices or a combination thereof. Examples of removable storage and non removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard disk drives HDD optical disk drives such as compact disk CD drives or digital versatile disk DVD drives solid state drives SSD and tape drives to name a few. Example computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

System memory removable storage devices and non removable storage devices are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also include an interface bus for facilitating communication from various interface devices e.g. output devices peripheral interfaces and communication devices to basic configuration via bus interface controller . Example output devices include a graphics processing unit and an audio processing unit which may be configured to communicate to various external devices such as a display or speakers via one or more A V ports . Example peripheral interfaces include a serial interface controller or a parallel interface controller which may be configured to communicate with external devices such as input devices e.g. keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. or other peripheral devices e.g. printer scanner etc. via one or more I O ports . An example communication device includes a network controller which may be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices over a network communication link via one or more communication ports .

The network communication link may be one example of a communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. A modulated data signal may be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein may include both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may be implemented as a portion of a small form factor portable or mobile electronic device such as a cell phone a personal data assistant PDA a personal media player device a wireless web watch device a personal headset device an application specific device or a hybrid device that include any of the above functions. Computing device may also be implemented as a personal computer including both laptop computer and non laptop computer configurations.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

In addition where features or aspects of the disclosure are described in terms of Markush groups those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group.

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes such as in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member. Thus for example a group having 1 3 cells refers to groups having 1 2 or 3 cells. Similarly a group having 1 5 cells refers to groups having 1 2 3 4 or 5 cells and so forth.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that various embodiments of the present disclosure have been described herein for purposes of illustration and that various modifications may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. Accordingly the various embodiments disclosed herein are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

