---

title: Efficient cache selection for content delivery networks and user equipments
abstract: Determining that a first object associated with a first wireless link has a first caching priority; determining that a second object associated with a second wireless link has a second caching priority; and increasing the first caching priority relative to the second caching priority in response to one or more of: the first wireless link having a larger congestion than the second wireless link, the first wireless link having a weaker signal strength than the second wireless link, or the first object being associated with a higher status or priority than the second object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08868066&OS=08868066&RS=08868066
owner: Nokia Siemens Networks Oy
number: 08868066
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20121220
---
This invention relates generally to wireless networks and more specifically to performing cache selection at a content delivery network or a user equipment.

This section is intended to provide a background or context to the invention disclosed below. The description herein may include concepts that could be pursued but are not necessarily ones that have been previously conceived implemented or described. Therefore unless otherwise explicitly indicated herein what is described in this section is not prior art to the description in this application and is not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

The following abbreviations that may be found in the specification and or the drawing figures are defined as follows 

Due to wireless bandwidth constraints within cellular systems there is an increasing need for techniques which provide lower latency access to requested content. Users may experience unacceptable latency when a wireless or cellular system fails to meet best effort delay requirements or targets. Unacceptable latency may occur at locations where signal strength is poor such as near cell edges and in the vicinity of terrain obstructions and where cells are loaded. Many systems provide service to premium users who are considered to be of a higher value or a higher priority than non premium users. However latency may prevent these premium users from receiving an acceptable level of service. The foregoing factors prevent many users from having a consistent experience when accessing content over the network.

Content delivery network CDN systems are becoming more and more prevalent within wireless communication systems. A CDN is a large distributed network of servers which may be deployed at multiple data centers throughout the Internet. One goal of a CDN is to serve content to end users with high availability and high performance. This content may include for example web objects text graphics URLs and scripts downloadable objects media files software documents applications e commerce portals live streaming media on demand streaming media social networks and other types of data. CDNs offload traffic served directly from a content provider s point of origin infrastructure typically resulting in greater efficiencies and cost savings for the content provider. CDNs may serve content with dedicated servers or with point to point P2P technology based upon peer operated computers or both.

Latency can be improved by retrieving content from a cache memory of a local CDN server rather than having to retrieve the content from the Internet on a remotely situated server. At the same time the rapidly expanding memory capacity provided by present day user equipment UE enhances the potential for UE caching to play a major role in reducing latency and achieving broadband efficiencies. However conventional CDN systems and UE caching approaches are not sufficiently effective at reducing latency in situations where cells are loaded where signal strength is poor where access is attempted at locations near cell edges and where premium users are to be served.

To perform caching the CDN or the UE must make a decision as to which content should be retained in a cache memory. For example the CDN or local server may store information or data objects that were downloaded for a first user such that the information or data objects need not be downloaded again if the information is subsequently requested by a second user. When determining which content should be stored in a cache memory conventional caching approaches focus on identifying specific content that is most popular across the network content that is most frequently requested or content that was most recently requested. One purpose of caching is to enable the CDN or the UE to minimize the volume of traffic which needs to be retrieved from the general Internet down to the communications service provider CSP or over the air to the UE. Another purpose of caching is to reduce latency for the largest number of objects retrieved.

As a practical matter loading on a cellular network is highly non uniform. To consider an illustrative example only 20 of the cells in a real world system may be more than 80 loaded. In general a small fraction of the cells are loaded whereas a much larger fraction of the cells are underloaded. Caching processes may be improved and latency reduced by differentiating between the popularity of objects retrieved in loaded cells and the popularity of objects retrieved in underloaded cells.

The cost of utilizing radio frequency RF resources throughout a cellular network is also highly non uniform. These RF costs may be expressed in terms of physical resource blocks per kilobyte KB of data. The RF costs are much smaller if the user is near the cell tower as opposed to the cell edge. Caching an object to the cell edge saves a disproportionately large amount of eNB resources compared to caching an object near the cell tower. From the standpoint of a user it is significantly more important to reduce latency at the cell edge versus near the cell tower. Additionally reducing latency for a object which is being transferred to a user near the tower is significantly less expensive than producing the same amount of latency reduction for a similar transfer to a user which is instead near the cell edge.

Another factor to consider is the generally non uniform popularity of objects as a function of geographic location. In other words it is typical for some objects to be consistently popular in one geographic area whereas other different objects are consistently popular in other geographic areas. For example a peer group gathers at a specific location and everyone in the peer group automatically tends to become interested in the same group of objects. These objects may be items which are located on the Facebook LinkedIn or MySpace pages of the various members of the peer group. Such objects may pertain to sporting events concerts parties and other social occasions. Likewise a user may live or work at a specific location in an overloaded cell or at a cell edge. In these situations the user is very likely to request many of the same objects which they have requested in the past and furthermore the user is very likely to repeat requests for these objects from that specific location. Moreover as indicated previously the users themselves are non uniform with respect to the network in the sense that some users from a customer equipment management CEM perspective may be of higher priority or value than other users.

According to a first aspect of the invention a method comprises determining that a first object associated with a first wireless link has a first caching priority determining that a second object associated with a second wireless link has a second caching priority and increasing the first caching priority relative to the second caching priority in response to one or more of the first wireless link having a larger congestion than the second wireless link the first wireless link having a weaker signal strength than the second wireless link or the first object being associated with a higher status or priority than the second object.

In another set of exemplary embodiments an apparatus includes at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code. The at least one memory and the computer program code may be configured to with the at least one processor cause the apparatus to perform at least determining that a first object associated with a first wireless link has a first caching priority determining that a second object associated with a second wireless link has a second caching priority and increasing the first caching priority relative to the second caching priority in response to one or more of the first wireless link having a larger congestion than the second wireless link the first wireless link having a weaker signal strength than the second wireless link or the first object being associated with a higher status or priority than the second object.

In another set of exemplary embodiments a computer program product is provided. The computer program product includes at least one computer readable storage medium having computer executable program code instructions stored therein. The computer executable program code instructions may include program code instructions for determining that a first object associated with a first wireless link has a first caching priority determining that a second object associated with a second wireless link has a second caching priority and increasing the first caching priority relative to the second caching priority in response to one or more of the first wireless link having a larger congestion than the second wireless link the first wireless link having a weaker signal strength than the second wireless link or the first object being associated with a higher status or priority than the second object.

At block a second popularity is determined for a second object. Next a second cell identifier is determined that is associated with a second cell block . The second cell identifier is determined based upon a previous download of the second object from the second cell. A second wireless loading attribute is adjusted for the second cell based upon current loading conditions at the second cell block . At least a second location identifier associated with the second object or a second user identifier associated with the second object is determined block . This determination is based upon a previous download of the second object from the second cell. At block a second customer equipment management priority attribute is adjusted. This adjustment is based upon at least one of the second location identifier or the second user identifier that was determined at block .

It should be noted that the operations of blocks may be performed concurrently or in any order with respect to the operations of blocks . From block or block the operational sequence progresses to block where memory caching is performed by storing only the first object and not the second object in a cache memory in response to the first popularity being greater than the second popularity only in a portion of a wireless system wherein the first popularity is less than the second popularity in a remainder of the wireless system that does not include the portion and one or more of a the first wireless loading attribute being larger than the second wireless loading attribute b a first signal strength attribute associated with the first cell being smaller than a second signal strength attribute associated with the second cell or c the first customer equipment management priority attribute being of a higher priority than the second customer equipment management priority attribute.

The operational sequence of differs from conventional approaches where the more popular object is stored in cache memory. In contrast to such conventional approaches a less popular object may be stored in cache memory in situations where the less popular object is less popular across an entire system but is actually more popular within some specific subset or portion of the system. For example the specific subset or portion could but need not be defined as encompassing relatively heavily loaded areas where the cellular loading per cell is higher than in other less loaded areas.

Block may optionally include identifying that the first object is retrieved in a first cell or that the first object is likely to be retrieved in the first cell. Likewise block may optionally include identifying that the second object is retrieved in a second cell or that the second object is likely to be retrieved in the second cell. The operations of block may optionally consider anticipated congestion or loading of the first cell. Similarly the operations of block may optionally consider anticipated congestion or loading of the second cell. For example if the first cell is not heavily loaded but is anticipated to become loaded or congested at a subsequent time or during a subsequent time interval then the first object may be associated with a higher caching priority relative to the second object.

Pursuant to an illustrative scenario in a first cell a first object is associated with a first popularity that is higher than a second popularity associated with a second object. However the first popularity is less than the second popularity in a remainder of the wireless system that does not include the first cell. The first cell is not currently loaded or congested. Later when the first cell is anticipated to increase in loading congestion the caching priority of the first object is then correspondingly increased based on this prediction of loading congestion in the first cell. Thus the content that is most likely to be retrieved in the most loaded or congested wireless cells is even a higher caching priority relative to other content. This process effectively deemphasizes traffic that is more popular in cells that are less loaded. Moreover this process differs from conventional approaches where the more popular object is stored in cache memory. In contrast to such conventional approaches a less popular object may be stored in cache memory in situations where the less popular object is less popular across an entire system but is actually more popular within some specific subset of the system. For example the specific subset could but need not be defined as encompassing relatively heavily loaded areas where the cellular loading per cell is higher than in other less loaded areas.

The operational sequences of B and may further identify or determine that the first object is typically retrieved by a first user who was not previously designated as a premium CEM user but is anticipated to be designated as a premium CEM user in the future or at a next time interval. In this scenario the first object may be given a higher caching priority than the second object. Alternatively or additionally anticipated loading may be calculated based on UE trajectories or patterns of mobility. For example the wireless link associated with a particular object or object type is based on a historical retrieval of that object over that wireless link or is based on other criteria enabling anticipation of retrieval of that object over the wireless link.

It may be helpful to describe an illustrative system in which the exemplary embodiments of the invention may be practiced. shows an illustrative system configured for example in accordance with a wireless communication standard referred to as long term evolution LTE and comprising an evolved packet core EPC . The EPC includes one or more user equipments UEs one or more base stations such as an evolved Node B eNB a mobility management entity MME and a home subscriber server HSS . The MME is configured for communicating with a content delivery network such as for example the Internet. The UE is configured for wireless communication with the eNB over a wireless link . The eNB is configured to access one or more networks which for illustrative purposes may be a network for accessing one or more additional eNBs and a network for accessing the Internet.

The UE includes one or more processors one or more memories and one or more transceivers interconnected through one or more buses . The one or more transceivers are connected to one or more antennas . The one or more memories include computer program code . The one or more memories may include a cache memory for storing one or more objects. Additionally or alternatively the cache memory may be provided by one or more of the processor s . The one or more memories and the computer program code are configured with the one or more processors to cause the UE to perform one or more of the operations as described herein.

The eNB includes one or more processors one or more memories one or more network interfaces N W I F s and one or more transceivers interconnected through one or more buses . The one or more transceivers are connected to one or more antennas . The one or more memories may include a cache memory for storing one or more objects. Alternatively or additionally the cache memory may be provided by the one or more processors . The one or more memories include computer program code . The one or more memories and the computer program code are configured with the one or more processors to cause the eNB to perform one or more of the operations as described herein. The one or more network interfaces communicate over a network such as the networks and . Two or more eNBs may communicate using. e.g. the network . The network may be wired or wireless or both.

The MME includes one or more processors one or more memories one or more network interfaces N W I F s interconnected through one or more buses . The one or more memories may include a cache memory for storing one or more objects. Alternatively or additionally the cache memory may be provided by the one or more processors . The one or more memories include computer program code . The one or more memories and the computer program code are configured with the one or more processors to cause the MME to perform one or more of the operations as described herein.

Embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in software executed by one or more processors hardware e.g. an application specific integrated circuit or a combination of software and hardware. In an example embodiment the software e.g. application logic an instruction set is maintained on any one of various conventional computer readable media. In the context of this document a computer readable medium may be any media or means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the instructions for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer with one example of a computer described and depicted e.g. in . A computer readable medium may comprise a computer readable storage medium e.g. memories or other device that may be any media or means that can contain or store the instructions for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer.

The system of illustratively performs the procedures shown in B or by implementing messaging between one or more elements in the EPC and the CDN . The messaging indicates which content objects flows or users are associated with at least one of a a specified cellular congestion level b a specified cell. The messaging also encompasses further updates of loading in terms of predicted loading is anticipated for a particular cell. This messaging can be conveyed through a variety of mechanisms including adding this information onto existing application packets illustratively using uniform resource identifier URI piggybacking associated with that flow user where the annotated information is then passed through the CDN . Alternatively an explicit application programming interface API may convey this information from the EPC up to the CDN . Conceivably this messaging flow could be standardized in the future e.g. within the 3GPP framework. Alternatively or additionally the messaging may originate from the client indicating for example signal strength such that the CDN can use this information as indicated in B and . Within a cell with a given loading level content which is particularly popular at the cell edge e.g. with worse signal strength or fewer bars is given relatively higher priority for caching.

Generally the UE is not aware of the eNB utilization or cell loading enabling a UE embodiment where the decision for the UE to cache an object is a function of the cell loading. However there are number of alternative embodiments where the UE is aware of the loading within a cell e.g. over future LTE air interface signaling or overt different application level embodiments. Alternatively or additionally there are various scenarios in which the CDN may influence a decision at the UE as to which content will be locally cached at the UE . One specific example would be an explicit indication from an application server for a media optimizer over and application protocol that a particular object should be cached at the UE . A literal command from the CDN may be used to indicate preferentially cache items being retrieved now or in this area . Wireless link properties in addition to or in lieu of signal strength may be used to adjust caching priorities. For example these properties may involve determining a cell type such as a small cell or heterogeneous network HetNET versus macrocell and adjusting caching priorities accordingly.

Consider an illustrative example wherein a first object is most likely than a second object to be downloaded within an overloaded cell. A second object is more popular than the first object across the cellular system but tends to be retrieved only in relatively lightly loaded cells. In this example the first object is more important to cache than the second item in that it is relatively important to provide latency reduction for the overloaded wireless cell where over the air delay is longest. Within cellular systems the CDN UE caching mechanism can be instrumental in enhancing the overall wireless system capacity. This is as opposed to the more traditional use of the CDN where the CDN reduces the amount of traffic which is retrieved from the general Internet down to a communication service provider CSP and to reduce the latency on the largest number of objects retrieved.

The loading on cellular and wireless systems has a non uniform spatial density distribution. In other words a relatively small percentage of cells may be loaded whereas a large percentage of cells are underloaded. One feature of the operational sequences described with reference to B and is that these methods differentiate the popularity of objects being retrieved in underloaded cells from the popularity of objects being retrieved in loaded cells. Additionally an RF cost may be defined in terms of the number of physical resource blocks per kilobyte that is transferred for example using the system of .

The RF cost associated with retrieving an object to a UE directly under a cellular or wireless tower is dramatically smaller than the RF cost of doing so when the UE is at or near the edge of the cell. Pursuant to any of the methods described in B and when caching avoids the retrieval of an object to the cell edge this saves a disproportionately large number of physical resource blocks or eNB resources in contrast to situations where caching avoids the retrieval of an object to a UE which is very close to the cellular or wireless tower. Thus it is significantly more important in terms of cell capacity and user experience for a cached object in the CDN to reduce latency for a UE at the cell edge as opposed to reducing the latency of retrieving an object to a UE which is near the tower. This is because the additional RF resources required to reduce limit delay for a cell edge user are dramatically greater for the cell edge user than for the near the tower user.

The methods described in B and are able to advantageously exploit the possibility of non uniform geographic popularity of objects. In other words it is typical for some objects to be consistently popular in one geographic area where other objects are consistently popular in other geographic areas. Anecdotal examples include a peer group gathering at a specified location where the peer group automatically tends to be interested in the same group of objects such as items which are located on one another s Facebook pages. Other examples include objects which are associated with a concert or a sporting event or are likely to be more popular for users geographically close to the concert or sporting event. Yet another example is passengers riding on a train where objects which require the user to watch the screen are popular whereas streaming audio may be more popular among users who are driving along an interstate highway. Still another example considers a particular user who lives or works at a specific location in an overloaded cell and or near a cell edge. Such a user is more likely to request the same objects which they have requested in the past. Furthermore such a user is likely to request these objects from that specific location. This scenario presents yet another example wherein an object that is popular at one location is relatively likely to continue to be popular at that specific location.

If desired the different functions discussed herein may be performed in a different order and or concurrently with each other. Furthermore if desired one or more of the above described functions may be optional or may be combined. Although various aspects of the invention are set out above other aspects of the invention comprise other combinations of features from the described embodiments and not solely the combinations explicitly set out above.

It is also noted herein that while the above describes example embodiments of the invention these descriptions should not be viewed in a limiting sense. Rather there are several variations and modifications which may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

