---

title: System and method for analyzing library of legal analysis charts
abstract: A computer-enabled system, method, and medium provides intellectual property analyses, for example, patent claim charts, respective to the analyzed intellectual property and a target product or other intellectual property. Analyses are stored to enable searching/reporting across multiple analyses. Units of the analysis are associated with context, inherited, e.g., from the intellectual property document's assignment to a relative role within the organizational hierarchy; and associated with a context derived from the analysis itself. The analysis and respective documents and/or targets of the analysis can be searched/retrieved/analyzed from the hierarchical analysis, the context analysis, and/or the content of the analysis. Each analysis need not be stored as a separate document. The representation of the analysis may by static or dynamic. The target or annotations may be visually represented by an item such as a thumbnail or hyperlink, and the system associates the item with the appropriate application program.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09547287&OS=09547287&RS=09547287
owner: 
number: 09547287
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120914
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 891 478 filed on Jul. 15 2004 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 725 531 filed Dec. 3 2003 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 692 793 filed Oct. 27 2003 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 229 273 filed Aug. 28 2002 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 315 021 filed Aug. 28 2001 all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is directed to computer related and or assisted systems methods and computer readable mediums for creating and optionally automating intellectual property analyses e.g. claim charts and sorting organizing reporting and or providing analysis documents in connection with the analyses.

Many corporations are focusing on their intellectual property assets as being quite valuable. Hence these companies strive to develop large intellectual property portfolios and indeed spend time and money on these assets. There is a concomitant pressure to leverage and or better manage these portfolios of intellectual property assets. As a result a great deal of emphasis has been placed on better ways to analyze the value of a portfolio better processes for managing the portfolio and better strategies for creating opportunities to extract value from the portfolio.

One of the many ways corporations analyze their intellectual property assets is by analyzing the validity of the intellectual property asset or by comparing the intellectual property to their own products or products of another company. Preparation of the comparison or analysis such as in a claim chart is painstaking though portions may be rote. Each individual analysis or comparison is discrete.

Perhaps because the individual analyses are discrete and painstaking various attempts have been made to analyze the relevance of intellectual property documents as a group or to automate portions of the analysis process. Some aspects of conventional systems are illustrated by way of example in also described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 665 656 Carter expressly incorporated herein by reference . Carter provides an example illustration in a table of a rank ordered output of correlating information related to an asset e.g. infringement or invalidity references related to a patent after performing a search. The displayed information includes a list of retrieved documents such as potentially invalidating or infringing references a relevance ranking a user ranking and other optional information fields . In this particular illustrative example the target document input from the user is labeled Patent A. An ontology builder can parse the terminology within a target patent or other document determine relationships between terms in the document and determine which terms in the document are more dominant than others. There is a high correlation of the target document to itself thus the first entry in the displayed information table is the target document Patent A. The relevance ranking for Patent A is 1.000 the highest correlation rank. The relevance ranking is a correlation indicator between a comparison of the ontology for the target document and an ontology created for the listed document. In addition to correlation the user may rank the documents based or other criteria such as company owner date perceived importance or other factors. In the particular example various technical papers patents data books and other information sources such as news articles SEC filings data books of competitors web sites IEEE industry standard documents and the like are listed.

Another aspect of conventional systems is illustrated in also described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 038 561 Snyder et al. expressly incorporated herein by reference concerning analyzing and displaying information contained in multiple documents employing both term based analysis and conceptual representation analysis for e.g. analyzing patent texts such as patent claims abstracts and other portions of a patent document. Snyder illustrates the steps to produce an S curve for analyzing documents from Company A verses documents from Company B. The process depicted in the flow chart begins with the generation of all scores either term or concept from a claim level data set A versus data set B analysis . For example the patents from Company A compared with the patents from Company B on a claim by claim basis. These scores are in the range of 0.0 to 1.0. Next in step all claims are sequentially numbered such that the first claim from Company A is 1 and the last claim from Company B is n and all claims from A precede all claims from B. In step for each claim index I from Company A the closest claim from Company B is found and the pair I S 1.0 where S is the similarity score of A compared with B is recorded. Next in step for each claim index I from Company B the closest claim from company A is found and the pair I 1.0 S where S is the similarity score of A compared to B is recorded. Finally in step all pairs are sorted in increasing order of second coordinate and displayed on a plot where the x axis represents the claim index and the y axis represents the claim score. The result is a plot in the form of an S curve where the bottom part of the S represents claims unique to company A the middle part represents claims with possible overlaps between the two companies and the top part represents claims unique to Company B.

While these management and analysis techniques have resulted in more efficient use of attorney resources and more targeted intellectual property filings and funding relatively little has been done to take advantage of current computational technologies the integration of data resources largely through the Internet and better knowledge based software systems to handle aspects of intellectual property. As a result no process or product exists for handling the full range of intellectual property functions in an automated manner.

Accordingly there exists a need in the market for a comprehensive system that incorporates tools that will give the intellectual property professional the ability to work in all aspects of their practice area using automated analysis tools to assist them in their practice.

Moreover many corporations have a wide range of intellectual property assets but no technique to make associations between assets. For example a particular license may implicate several patents. Conventional systems do not support the association of the intellectual property assets and they certainly do not support a memorialized explanation of the association. Even if a user is able to determine a few related intellectual property assets the problem of determining associated intellectual property assets grows geometrically more complex with the number of intellectual property assets.

Accordingly I have determined that the complexities affecting the analysis use accessing researching presenting etc. of intellectual property and related information make it extremely difficult for a customer to integrate information in various scenarios. I have determined that a customer might want to create or provide an analysis of intellectual property e.g. a patent claim chart a trademark comparison chart a copyright comparison chart etc. for multiple products patents and or other intellectual property and a customer that has e.g. multiple analyses such as claim charts might be able to leverage an analysis of intellectual property coverage. A customer might desire to automate some or all of the process of creating a claim chart or other infringement or comparison analysis in particular as it relates to other intellectual property and or other analyses. In addition a customer might want to determine e.g. which patents or other intellectual property documents including trademarks copyrights etc. and or analyses are implicated by and or related to for example a particular component a particular product a particular technology a license for a particular product a company a corporate division a type of service or other perhaps company specific criteria. I have further determined that a customer might want to ascertain the intellectual property documents and analyses that are related on multiple levels optionally including details relating to the relationships. There exists a profound need for such a method and or system.

I therefore contemplate providing methods and or computer systems that will provide an automated or semi manual process for searching editing reporting analyzing and or viewing intellectual property analyses and or for assisting the creation of intellectual property analysis e.g. claim charts and comparison charts including e.g. automatic evaluation automatic population of claim language with collapsing expanding rows and accommodation of chemical formulas equations and other non standard format components. One or more aspects of the present invention provides for context to be assigned to analyses and to relationships between intellectual property assigned to the analyses. I further propose to provide in one or more embodiments of the present intention optional claim chart presentations e.g. a static chart with items embedded therein a dynamic chart and optional features e.g. dependencies. I further propose that one or more aspects of the invention provide for analysis of various types of intellectual property e.g. patents trademarks and or copyrights. Further one or more aspects of the invention may be adapted to traditional analysis e.g. infringement product coverage validity and or design around. One or more aspects of the present invention provide that the analyses of intellectual property documents themselves may be sorted organized reported and or analyzed e.g. through contexts of the analyses and or relationships of intellectual property documents assigned to the analyses. Related tools are optionally included.

Consequently the present invention alleviates the deficiencies of conventional techniques described above. Aspects of the present invention provide for the significant improvement of the management of intellectual property by for example enabling personnel to document the associations between various intellectual properties to analyze various intellectual properties in context of a company its partners and or competitors to automate the analysis and or to relate the various analyses optionally to products and or services and or provide annotations capturing their conclusions from analyzing those associations.

By way of example a clause within a sublicense agreement may reference a paragraph within an original license agreement a spreadsheet containing royalty payment schedules a copyright registration and or a photograph of the cover of a book. Furthermore a clause within the sublicense may have textual and or multimedia annotations explanations etc. containing comments by attorneys and or corporate management emphasizing specific aspects of importance about the related item. Another example is a product specification referencing an individual claim of a patent specific paragraphs of a license agreement a registered trademark a product web page on the Internet and or a link to a product drawing file. The reference to the patent claim may contain e.g. a conformance analysis of why the product does not violate a competitor s patent or why a particular patent may be invalid over a particular prior art reference or why a competitor s product infringes a particular patent or a comment identifying how a key competitive feature of the product is protected by the patent.

One or more embodiments of the present invention may be capable of various configurations to adapt to user needs. For example in one or more embodiments it may be used in conjunction with a customer site with a single server containing all data for use by a small number of simultaneously connected users. Alternatively one or more embodiments may be set up for use in conjunction with a multi server distributed environment for use e.g. by a large number of simultaneously connected users at a large corporate use site. In another embodiment the invention supports users connected to an Internet backbone as part of a licensed service.

One or more embodiments of the present invention may provide for readily navigating and or annotating intellectual property documents.

One or more embodiments of the present invention optionally allow a user to download a set of related documents for example to work offline while disconnected from the server and to reconnect and synchronize changes with a server. In accordance with the present invention there are provided methods systems and at least one computer readable medium for providing a searchable set of contexts of intellectual property documents assigned within a hierarchy and intellectual property analyses of the documents for searching editing reporting analyzing and or viewing implemented by one or more computers. Where the invention comprises steps the steps can be sequential non sequential and or sequence independent.

One or more embodiments of the present invention includes determining one or more intellectual property documents which has one or more contextual tags associated therewith. The contextual tag s includes information derived from an assignment of the document s within the hierarchy. Also included is determining one the types of analyses to be applied to the intellectual property document s wherein one or more type of analysis corresponds to a type of intellectual property and the type s of analysis includes one or more units of analysis determined by the type of analysis. Also included is processing the intellectual property document s according to the type of analysis including associating the unit s of analysis with i an analysis context determined by the type of analysis and the intellectual property document s ii a reference to a portion or more of the content of the intellectual property document s and iii a contextual tag. Further included is interacting with a user to determine the content of the unit s of analysis corresponding to the intellectual property document s and the type of analysis applied to the intellectual property document s . Also provided for is storing the analysis context the content of the analysis and the contextual tag corresponding to the unit s of analysis in association for later search and retrieval.

One or more embodiments of the present invention further provide for utilizing the analysis context and or the contextual tag as search criteria for searching and or retrieving i the intellectual property document s ii the contextual tag s iii the analysis context s and or iv the content s of the analysis.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the analysis context corresponding to a patent type of intellectual property refers to a patent a patent claim a patent claim element and or a target to which at least a portion of the patent is compared.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the analysis context includes one or more targets of the analysis and if the at least one target is not stored locally stores a local copy of the target s .

One or more embodiments of the present invention further include providing a representation of the analysis applied to the intellectual property document s including associating a representation of the analysis context with a representation of the content of the analysis.

One or more embodiments of the present invention provide for one or more intellectual property analysis with respect to a target intellectual property or product implemented by one or more computers. There is provided one or more intellectual property analysis associated with a first intellectual property wherein the analysis includes elements. Also included is providing one or more target including a second intellectual property and or a representation of a product. Also provided is associating one or more of the elements with at least a portion of the target s and determining at least one reference corresponding thereto. Further provided is storing the reference s in association with the target s and the first intellectual property for later retrieval of the reference s the target s and or the first intellectual property.

One or more embodiments of the present invention includes providing a representation of the analysis wherein the representation is static and or dynamic.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the analysis is a patent non infringement analysis a patent invalidity analysis a patent freedom to operate analysis a patent product coverage analysis a patent claim construction analysis a patent infringement analysis a trademark infringement analysis or a copyright infringement analysis.

One or more embodiments of the present invention include providing a representation of the analysis wherein the target is visually represented by one or more items embedded in the representation further including determining a program to display the embedded item s .

One or more embodiments of the present invention include searching for one or more documents based on criteria including the portion or more of the target s the reference s and or the element s .

One or more embodiments of the present invention include providing a representation of the analysis and accessing the at least one document from the representation s the target s the first intellectual property and the reference s stored in association therewith.

One or more embodiments of the present invention further include displaying information characterizing the document s .

Optionally the intellectual property is representative of an invention disclosure a patent application draft patent claims a patent document a utility model a trademark document a copyright document a product description document a license document a non disclosure agreement NDA a memorandum of understanding MOU a sui generis protection document a design registration document a trade secret document and or an opinion document.

One or more embodiments of the present invention further include automatically populating the element s from the first intellectual property.

One or more embodiments of the present invention further include responsive to user input collapsing and or expanding the element s with respect to an adjacent element.

One or more embodiments of the present invention further include for the element s prompting the user to indicate a correspondence between the element s and the portion or more of the target.

One or more embodiments of the present invention provide for sorting organizing searching reporting and or analyzing more than one intellectual property analyses implemented on at least one computer. Accordingly one or more embodiments of the present invention provide for selecting intellectual property analyses wherein information characterizing the analysis is stored in the computer system s selecting a target an intellectual property and or the information characterizing the analysis and processing the information characterizing the analysis to determine one or more of the intellectual property analyses corresponding to the target the intellectual property and or the information characterizing the analysis.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the intellectual property analysis relates to a first intellectual property and the analysis includes elements the target includes a second intellectual property and or a representation of a product. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the analysis and or one or more of the elements is associated with a portion or more of the target s . Further one or more reference is stored in association with the target s and the first intellectual property for later retrieval of the reference s the target s and or the first intellectual property.

There has thus been outlined rather broadly the more important features of the invention in order that the detailed description thereof that follows may be better understood and in order that the present contribution to the art may be better appreciated. There are of course additional features of the invention that will be described hereinafter and which will form the subject matter of the claims appended hereto.

In this respect before explaining at least one embodiment of the invention in detail it is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction and to the arrangements of the components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The invention is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced and carried out in various ways. Also it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein are for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting.

As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that the conception upon which this disclosure is based may readily be utilized as a basis for the designing of other structures methods and systems for carrying out the several purposes of the present invention. It is important therefore that the claims be regarded as including such equivalent constructions insofar as they do not depart from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

Further the purpose of the forgoing abstract is to enable the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally and especially the scientists engineers and practitioners in the art who are not familiar with patent or legal terms or phraseology to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and essence of the technical disclosure of the application. The abstract is neither intended to define the invention of the application which is measured by the claims nor is it intended to be limiting as to the scope of the invention in any way. These together with other objects of the invention along with the various features of novelty that characterize the invention are pointed out with particularity in the claims annexed to and forming a part of this disclosure. For a better understanding of the invention its operating advantages and specific features attained by its uses reference should be had to the accompanying drawings and descriptive matter in which there is illustrated preferred embodiments of the invention.

The following detailed description includes many specific details. The inclusion of such details is for the purpose of illustration only and should not be understood to limit the invention. Throughout this discussion similar elements are referred to by similar numbers in the various figures for ease of reference. In addition features in one embodiment may be combined with features in other embodiments of the invention.

Intellectual property information regarding intellectual property documents by a customer intellectual property service provider government entity or other source has been collected. Likely such information is extracted and deposited into one or more databases. Ultimately at least a portion of such intellectual property information is presented to an end user on behalf of a customer such as via an intellectual property application which may be executing locally or via a web site over the World Wide Web i.e. the Internet. For ease of description such a collection of information will be referred to herein as database although it should be recognized that the information might be collected in other formats as well and that an intellectual property application might not be restricted to data stored in a database.

The association between selected intellectual property information is realized and optionally annotated. The annotation enables users to annotate images and text in intellectual property such as e.g. patent drawings. Those annotations are saved and optionally categorized. For example annotated drawings or images are saved in the context of projects in order that notes and other thoughts of the user are memorialized and tied to a project.

A system design for use in connection with one or more embodiments of the present invention as illustrated in may advantageously comprise a number of interconnected components. Each component may focus on a specific task and advantageously provides and or utilizes an Application Programming Interface API to communicate with other components within the system according to the illustrated realization of one example system. Components may include for example one or more data servers a data manager one or more analyzer views a management console and or a watch agent . Components and or functions thereof may be omitted replaced subdivided and or combined and still remain within the scope of the invention. The data servers provide access to the data representing the intellectual property documents the data analyzer provides user interfaces to obtain analyze and or traverse intellectual property documents and the data manager breaks down documents into storable units and builds up documents for the user interfaces.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention scalability may be provided by the logical and or physical separation of data server functionality from the data manager . For example the data manager may reside with one or more data server on e.g. a single machine storing all patent licensing and annotation data. As one of many alternatives the data manager may connect to multiple data servers each running on a separate machine and each storing only a portion of the data.

According to one or more optional realizations of the present invention offline storage and or operation may be provided for example by a document manager discussed below which stores some or all working data locally on the user s machine and or by API functionality to retrieve and store documents from the data manager .

Optionally there may be provided one or more data servers amongst which the data server functions may be divided. In the present example several data servers are provided. Optionally a multiple data server format may house one or more sets of related information. In this illustration one data server might contain the entire United States Patent and Trademark Office USPTO database and or one data server might contain multiple databases. According to one example alternative the related information in this case the USPTO database may be spread over multiple data servers . According to a convenient realization for example one data server may contain only the patents ending in 1 another server might contain patents ending in 2 a third might contain patents ending in 3 and so on according to this example there are 10 servers across which is distributed preferably in a logical manner preferably the entire USPTO database. By distributing the data servers and functions one or more embodiments of the present invention may provide for a scalable solution for storing generalized data used by the system.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the data may be stored in its original format. Alternatively it may be reformatted at some point or points prior to storage. The format for the data that the USPTO currently provides data for patents is XML a mark up language which is fairly similar to HTML. XML is a generalized syntax for creating a document structure and tags unlike HTML which has predefined tags. XML essentially leaves the meaning of those tags to the developer of the dialect. In this case the USPTO has defined the individual tags that exist within this language and the meaning tag of each. The system may use the syntax as provided by one or more patent trademark offices government and or commercial data providers or optionally the syntax may be converted e.g. into one or more standard formats. In the illustrated example the USPTO patent database both text XML and image data is distributed across three data servers and

Similarly one or more embodiments of the present invention may accommodate other data and or other formats e.g. an XML schema for license agreements. Such a schema for a license agreement may accommodate e.g. typical usual optional and or advanced elements that are available within the license agreement e.g. a preamble definition section individual definitions paragraphs clauses sections articles etc. In the illustrated example license documents are stored on the data server .

As illustrated in the example of each data server in a multi data server embodiment within the system may contain all a subset and or a portion of the information that is available to the user. Data server stores in the present example license data copyright data and trademark data. These databases are likely to be much smaller than the USPTO patent database. Hence a single server may store more than one type of data. Optionally non USPTO data is included.

According to the illustrated example data server stores annotation data discussed below e.g. having annotations corresponding to some of the patents and or licenses. The annotation data may include e.g. electronic mark ups that attorneys or other users would make e.g. in connection with a document. Further in this example data servers through store the patent text and image data of the USPTO patent database or a portion thereof .

The optional data manager may pull together the data that may be distributed across one or more servers. The data manager advantageously provides a single cohesive and comprehensive management of a given database. The data manager according to one or more embodiments of the present invention provides for the seamless distribution coordination and searching of documents e.g. XML or merging of annotation data e.g. XML and image data across one or more data servers. It optionally may support caching of search requests and or results and or replication of data to and or from remote servers.

Reference is made to providing one or more example embodiments of the data manager architecture. The data manager may provide an object API having services to receive requests and transmit information to from the data analyzer e.g. to insert update delete and or request document data e.g. XML data. The object API may have and or retrieve binary data such as for images and or sound for example. XML data requests may be further processed within the data manager and if appropriate passed to a data server binary requests may be passed on through to the underlying data server .

Consider for example that documents are provided in XML format and that annotations for each document are provided as annotation data entities therein. When an XML data insertion or update occurs the XML data is first parsed by an XML parser . This parser maybe driven by a mark up schema which identifies XML tags within the document for annotation data entities and the relationship of the XML tags to the document data entities. The annotation data entities are extracted from the XML document. They may be used to create an annotation XML data stream. The remainder of the XML data that is the potentially revised document without the annotations may be used to create a document XML data stream.

Where multiple data servers are provided an optional connection manager may be provided to identify which data server s stores the data at issue if distributed e.g. the document data the annotation data and or the image data such as by maintaining a mapping. Image data may be stored on the same data server as the document data or may be stored elsewhere.

Continuing with the above example of XML documents when an XML request occurs the data manager retrieves the document XML data and the annotation XML data from their respective one or more data servers. It then parses both these XML data streams with one or more XML parsers . Using the mark up schema it embeds the annotations from the annotation XML data within the corresponding tagged elements of the document XML data and with annotation merge logic merges both streams into a single XML document.

When a search request occurs search and result merge logic optionally looks up each keyword in the one or more thesauri of the data server s and any match is added to a search keyword list. The search request may contain a list of searchable fields appropriate to the documents being searched e.g. Abstract Inventor Claims etc. for patents and or the scope of the search e.g. Patent Copyright Annotation etc. . The search is then executed on the relevant Data Servers the results are collected and they are returned to the caller. Search results optionally may be returned from the data server in partial result groupings such as of a specified fixed size this permits the data manager to satisfy a search request quickly while deferring much of the processing overhead for result fetching until actually needed.

If a user is browsing back and forth through a number of items returned from a search it is likely that they will request the same document repeatedly within a short period of time. An optional cache manager maintains a mapping of client search requests to search results. If a request is repeated while the result is cached the result may be returned from an Image and XML cache through the cache manager instead of generating a new data server search request.

When the optional change notification event is received from a data server it is passed in to the change notification handler then through to the object API . It may be passed to an optional replication service which maintains a list of registered downstream data managers. One or more data managers may be registered for replication of information as identified e.g. by data server and item type and will be notified of such changes. A notified data server may request the information. The replication service maintains a queuing of notifications for those registered data managers that are unreachable or are flagged for queuing. The optional change notification event may provide the basis for a subscription service in order to provide customers with updated latest patent and trademark information. The optional change notification event and replication service may be used for enabling a system to distribute to multiple data servers even if distributed around the world while maintaining synchronization between them. The optional change notification event may be provided to the cache manager which may be used to enable it to flush an image and XML cache of outdated items.

Reference is made back to . According to one or more embodiments of the present invention an optional search engine locates stored documents by performing searches on phrases and or individual words. For example the search engine interface may provide a column for proceeding word and another for following word. As a further example to access intellectual property patent data when doing a search a search request may result in a hit to all three of the Data Servers in parallel. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the data manager is responsible for coordinating among the distributed Data Servers where multiple data servers have potentially relevant data and for being aware of the range of specific data on each data server. If a search request is received the data manager may broadcast that request to all of the relevant data servers three in the illustrated example receive the search request results returned from those data servers and then merge the results back together again and create a single common results set. The advantage of distributing a search is that one may speed up the search average out the effect of multiple users and or numerous requests being received and load level the users working with an individual patent and its image data. The data manager thus provides an optional second logical level where it pulls together the content of the data servers and or provides among other things a view into a company s intellectual property database.

An optional third logical level is the data analyzer . The data analyzer performs inter alia formatting of information into a representation that is user friendly so that a user may read and or edit. The data analyzer may include prompting the user for annotations for accepting annotation data for displaying data for creating reports for creating a document map which demonstrates the relationships of one set of information to another etc.

Reference is made to illustrating several example windows and open within a user interface according to one or more embodiments of the present invention. One or more aspects of the present invention assist in working with relationships between documents and or portions thereof.

The user interfaces to the intellectual property documents are optionally enabled by the data analyzer illustrated in . Reference is made to . In this example the license in the editing window correlates to the editing view . A report window demonstrates the report view a map window demonstrates the map view and a mark up window represents the annotation view .

Reference is now made to . The user in this example has retrieved an intellectual property document to edit and or annotate e.g. a license into an editing window . One or more aspects of the present invention provide that the user may logically subdivide that document into sections. Those sections may then be related to sections within that or another document. The relationship between one document and another and or between one section in one document and a section in another document or the document itself may be annotated. The annotation allows a user e.g. an attorney who is analyzing this information to indicate within a document for example an issue the result of an analysis how this portion of this document relates to that portion of that document etc.

Referring again to the intellectual property document in this example the license is displayed in the editing window . The editing window presently displays that portion of the document encompassing Article 1 Section 1.1 which in the example is entitled Trade Secret License. In one or more embodiments of the present invention one or more active portions e.g. Trade Secret License may be outlined and or highlighted such as in red on the screen in order to indicate that this is an active portion of the document being viewed. A further indication e.g. a special highlight or color e.g. optionally may be used to indicate that there is an annotation associated therewith e.g. a possible conformance issue or a failed conflict.

By way of example of a possible use of one aspect of the invention if a user is performing e.g. evaluation of a license against a patent or a product against a patent for each of the claims in the patent the user may be viewing parts of the license and the claims one at a time and indicating that a certain aspect of this product license or document fails to conform to some aspect of this patent claim. The user may select one of several standard notations reflecting for example a standard system provided relation and or a super user customized attribute concerning the respective documents e.g. that a product or license etc. is in violation of this patent claim or may be in violation of this patent claim or is not in violation of this patent claim. The user may wish to add other text annotations references to other documents or URL s or files etc. to the document being viewed. Those thoughts however they may be phrased or indicated are important to capture. An attorney or other user going through an intellectual property document such as a patent may indicate that a product license etc. does not violate this patent claims 1 2 3 etc. because of annotated reasons or indicate the need to look into this further and or indicate the need for a second opinion or any other indication as desired. Multiple users may each provide separate annotations.

The attorney or other user may review edit and or annotate an agreement or other intellectual property document in the editing window for example by selecting a section or traverse the document section by section. The document may be subdivided previously currently and or subsequently into sections automatically e.g. within the XML format manually and or semi manually. In the present example beginning e.g. with Section 1.1 the user may select a portion of the document in the editing window to add an annotation or mark up data.

Reference is now made to showing an example mark up window to interact with the user to obtain annotations. The mark up window pops up in response to a user indication that he wishes to annotate a document or portion thereof . In the present example the user may select one or more type of pre defined notations e.g. conformance view notes view a history of changes to this section and or view some user defined attributes and or categories or links to images or web pages etc.

In the illustrated example Harvey Wallenbarger is the user and selects Section 1.1 in the editing window shown in . In response to the selection the system obtains the user s annotation via the mark up window . In the mark up window in conflicts under the conformance tab the user selects possible indicating that there is a possible conformance violation the user may alternatively or in addition type in text comments e.g. to memorialize concerns about the possible conformance violation. By selecting at the top of the mark up window one or more embodiments of the present invention includes a drop down list box or chooser that provides a mechanism for choosing a related intellectual property document for example one of several documents that the user may be working with thereby relating the section and or its annotation to a section of another or the same intellectual property document. In the illustrated example the user notes a relationship between the annotated license section 1.1 to a section of another intellectual property document.

Optionally the other document or other section of the same document is displayed in an optional further editing window shown in . Optionally a selected section of the related document is highlighted.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention annotation is realized as a manually driven approach. For example a user goes through a document one item at a time and performs an annotation. The process of annotating is preferably a manually driven process for several reasons. For example one person may use the term cup but another person may choose to use the designation a liquid containing dispensing container for the same object. To create an automated mapping between those two designations may be possible using for example a thesaurus where the user may add synonyms that expand the scope of the search etc. Nevertheless to be able to parse out the complex language that tends to appear in intellectual property documents and to be able to accurately perform an analysis against similarly complex wording by a completely different person is may be better done manually or semi automatically.

Reference is now made to . One or more embodiments of the present invention optionally provide for a report window . The report window provides a summary of the mark ups to e.g. the selected document. In this example the report window includes a summary of mark ups including a count of sections and types of mark ups. Optionally each section and sub section also is summarized. A section or subsection summary optionally includes a mark up summary with e.g. the standard notation type any reference s author date and or other annotation data. The present example indicates that one or more users has reviewed this license or other document checked it against a particular document or documents and summarized some or all of the mark up data and associated portions of the document that have been annotated.

The optional map window illustrated in provides a map of the sections of the mark up document and the related intellectual property documents noted in annotations. In the present example the map window includes a visual representation of each document section and a summary of each related document noted in a mark up. A map line indicates a relation between document sections and subsections and a connection is indicated between documents and sections subsections.

Other components plug ins reports and or tools may be provided to view search edit annotate link and or mark up intellectual property documents in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention. The view and window functionality for example may be combined omitted and or replaced and or implemented in an alternative user interface in alternative embodiments of the present invention.

Reference is again made to . The mark up data optionally is stored logically and or electronically embedded within the original document e.g. as an annotation. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the system may host most or all of the databases on web servers for use by any of a large number of users. According to one or more embodiment of the present invention annotated documents are stored e.g. locally and or remotely. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention intellectual property documents are linked to annotations and the documents are shared.

If the users are unaffiliated with each other however it would be undesirable to have these unrelated users accessing e.g. the same patent marking it up and physically embedding additional information therein. It would not be suitable to make that information available to all of those users. Consequently according to one or more embodiments of the present invention the mark up data is maintained so that the separate and or unrelated users are protected from disclosure to each other. Accordingly the mark up data optionally is separately maintained from the document data and is correlated to a user and or group of users.

Further the mark up data preferably is seamlessly associated with the document information and according to one or more embodiments of the present invention is preferably presented to the user as a unitary document. Despite the unitary appearance when the user is finished working on this document the document and mark up information optionally is broken into components optionally each being stored in the appropriate and or separate storage. Optionally the document and mark ups are stored together.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention there are provided two or more streams of data corresponding respectively to the mark up s and the document s . These data streams are merged together into a single document and that merged document is presented to the user and or worked on as a single logical document. When that work is complete or the user otherwise is done then the document is split up into two or more different streams corresponding to the mark up s and the document s . Preferably the document is in XML format but could be in other formats.

Reference is made again to a block diagram for one or more embodiments of a data manager also showing communications to from a data server and to from a data analyzer . The data manager may in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention provide for splitting and merging annotations and documents. In the illustration of a document with annotations is split into data streams via annotation split and merged into an annotated document via annotation merge . Consider an example data flow through the data manager an XML request from the data analyzer communications is received by an object API . The XML request indicates a particular XML intellectual property document optionally with annotations to be retrieved e.g. to be accessed by the data analyzer. The request is received by annotation merge component in the data manager . The data manager determines that it needs to obtain one or more XML document corresponding to the document data for the intellectual property document and also one or more XML document corresponding to the annotation data. The annotation merge component issues a request to retrieve these two or more documents. Consider that one of these for illustration purposes is a patent document and the other is annotation data marking up the patent. The annotation data includes within the set of its information an association between one or more individual annotations and the location of the item or section within the patent document the entity that the annotation refers to for example specific claims in a patent. So if as in this example the user has annotated a particular claim in the specified patent then the annotation includes a reference corresponding to the identifier for the entity corresponding to that claim. There are a number of ways by which an entity within a document could be uniquely identified e.g. offset from document start logical division etc. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the annotation merge component processes document data and annotation data e.g. with an XML parser identifies the one or more entities within the document with a particular annotation extracts the annotation e.g. as an XML mark up fragment and embeds the annotation within the section of the document e.g. an XML section for the referenced entity within the document.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention there are provided two or more different documents one containing annotations and the other containing the document both including a respective series of entities. The annotation document s is broken up into the individual entities the documents are parsed and it is determined where the annotation entities go in the document and the document is fattened into a marked up document. The fattened mark up document is then returned to the data analyzer as the document in the proper format e.g. XML via data analyzer communication .

The data analyzer then may at that point work with the mark up document as if it is a single document. That the marked up document originated from two or three or more different sources according to one or more embodiments of the present invention is transparent to the data analyzer. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the data analyzer receives processes and or acts on the marked up document as a unitary document and when done returns it as a unitary document. Optionally the data analyzer works with the document encompassing more than one file e.g. separate document and annotation data multiple files for document sections etc.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the data manager includes one or more annotation split components optionally driven by a mark up schema . The mark up schema identifies which types of entities belong in a document e.g. a patent and which types of entities belong in an annotation. In scanning through the mark up or expanded document the system may identify the one or more entities that are an annotation entity. The schema identifies the annotation entities such as in XML. Further the system can identify that a particular annotation entity is related to a particular parent document or entity within a parent document and may obtain the unique identifier for that parent associated back with the annotation entity. It may then start building a new annotation document. So in this way the system then supports the collapsing of the expanded mark up document from the analyzer back into its normal form extracting the annotations building another annotation document and then inserting data for the annotation and or document back into the Data Server.

In the case of a patent for example the original document may be marked as read only so the user cannot edit the original document. Optionally the annotation split logic determines whether the document is read only thereby avoiding the need to examine edits to the original document e.g. the original patent document. Consequently for a read only document the annotation split logic may review the mark up document to extract the annotation information.

Reference is now made to illustrating an example block diagram of one potential embodiment of the data server . According to one or more embodiments of the present invention one or more data servers retrieve store documents and or annotation data.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the intellectual property documents are stored separately from the annotation data. If desired stored documents may be further subdivided e.g. by intellectual property type e.g. patent license trademark or file format e.g. XML .TIFF .DOC 

Each data server may advantageously provide an object API which inter alia receives communications to from a data manager to insert update delete and or request data in a format appropriate to the document s annotation and or image data e.g. XML. Hence where documents and annotations are stored as e.g. XML formatted data streams the data server may act as a repository for document and or annotation data.

When an XML data insertion or update occurs the XML data advantageously may be stored within an XML repository e.g. as a new revision of the document. The data server receives the document or documents for storage e.g. through an XML update request. An XML update request is received through the object API and is optionally sent to a data versioning manager to handle version updates.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention revisions may be managed by a data versioning manager . For example when a data request occurs the specified data may be retrieved from the data versioning manager the default optionally being to retrieve the latest changes however a prior version may be specified within the data request. The changed document for example the annotation document is inserted into e.g. a data versioning manager to accomplish version control. There are several appropriate varieties of commercially available version control software. A version control program generally compares the revised document against the prior copy makes a list of the changes and associates a new revision with those changes. Optionally upon changing or updating a document a change notification may be initiated for use by other processes.

The object API may provide for services e.g. to insert update delete and or retrieve binary data such as for images . Such binary data advantageously may be managed by the data versioning manager and optionally a new revision may be created on update. The binary data type may be stored advantageously with the binary data when inserted or updated e.g. in image data files . The various standard image types e.g. JPEG GIF TIFF etc. optionally may be known to the system as predefined data types. Optionally if an image is requested in a different known format than it is stored conversion to the requested format may be performed e.g. during retrieval the may be done advantageously by one or more format converters .

One of the other aspects of the optional version control system is that it is possible to label a particular version as having a given name. The label then readily allows the system to associate a version of the annotation data with a version of the document data. The annotations and the document may be changing at different rates. One or more embodiments of the present invention provide the ability to create an associated name with a revision and the version control allows the system to then associate the various into version streams that are changing at different rates.

The document being edited and or marked up e.g. a license agreement may be changing at a very rapid rate initially but then those versions may slow down as the license matures. Conversely the annotations may start to grow rapidly or there may be a period when a company is working with a particular sub licensing arrangement where those changes are occurring rapidly as well. The XML document received from the data analyzer is then fit into the data versioning manager . Relevant information optionally is stored into a repository and that reflects one part of the life cycle of that document.

The optional XML repository provides the data versioning manager s log file storage for change records. It may use a form of data compression that is typically used in version control systems where storing the changes that have happened from one revision to the next of the document.

When XML data is inserted or updated in an XML document it may be parsed by an XML parser. Optionally a configuration data section may be used to identify document structure. An index schema for example may be used to identify XML tags that the XML parser uses to break up the document into major sections and a separate index may be generated e.g. by an index generator and may be maintained for each such section. During parsing the various elements of the XML data stream may be identified. Their contents further may be parsed to extract the individual words within each element. These extracted words may be compared against a table of unimportant words. If not matched in the table the word together with the unique fully qualified XML document name plus its new revision number if any are may be stored in an index SQL database . Each entry e.g. row in the table may be identified via e.g. primary key by the word the document name and the revision or in any other appropriate way. This table may contain a separate field e.g. column for each section of the XML document which may contain a count of the number of times e.g. frequency the word appears within that section. This realization may enable an index searcher to place the most likely candidates at the beginning of the search results. Other realizations are possible and will be appreciated by one of skill in the art. The data server optionally includes a thesaurus which may reference and or manage a table of synonyms to be used inter alia in broadening the field of search. Thesaurus may maintain relevant data in any appropriate form such as thesaurus SQL data .

When XML or binary data or other data is inserted updated or deleted in a document a change notification event optionally may be generated. This may be broadcast to registered listeners typically one or more data managers . The change notification event may advantageously provide underlying support for replication and or may be used for notifying a user of modifications to a document that they may be reviewing.

Reference is made to a block diagram of one embodiment of an architecture for the data analyzer . The data analyzer communicates via the data manager to one or more data servers on the backend of the system. From a user s perspective one optionally is interacting with the data analyzer via a user interface e.g. looking at a directory and or search view in order to locate edit or annotate a document. For example a user interface may present a directory as a navigable tree allowing them to see one or more data managers in connection with respective data servers. Optionally a data manager may then be responsible for presenting a relevant part of the navigable tree. Other means of displaying documents are equally appropriate e.g. the data analyzer may show a list of the patents by year issued by classification etc. An interface is provided so that the user can identify a document they want to work with. For example a user may do a search e.g. for all documents containing the term cup and be presented with a list of search results in order to access documents.

In any event the user identifies the document of interest and a request for the document is sent by the data analyzer to the version manager e.g. for the latest version. In some cases especially if the user is interested in looking at historical changes then they may want to obtain a prior version of that document. The version may be important if there is an association between the version of annotation data and the version of the document data. Optionally the system retrieves multiple versions e.g. to illustrate a particular moment in the history of that document. The XML Request may be sent as a data manager communication to a document manager and the requested XML document may be returned. The document manager reads and then stores that document into the document workspace according to one or more embodiments of the present invention.

In the document worked on by the data analyzer the annotation data preferably is already merged with the original document data. The merged document may be optionally stored into a document workspace . The purpose of the document workspace is so that a user may remotely work on a document such as on a notebook computer not connected to a network. The data may be local in the workspace. Hence if there is a disconnect from the original data sources it is irrelevant in terms of working with the document.

When the remote user finishes edits or annotations on those one or more documents they may then check those documents back into the data server through the data analyzer and the data manager. When a document is to be worked with it may be extracted from the document workspace . Optionally the document to be worked on is broken down into elements if any. The document workspace may be for example a file in a directory or a set of directories on a disk. To break the document into elements according to one or more embodiments of the present invention the document is extracted from the document workspace and fed into the XML parser within a document object model . The document object model may be e.g. standard binary representation or object representation of XML. An annotation schema may be referred to within either the XML parser and or an XML generator for example in the process of conversion to and from the object model .

Once the XML data is broken down into an internal object representation it is possible to look at an individual element and determine e.g. what is the content of that element in terms of text name of the tag text of the entity tag name for the entity and or parent entity for it.

The merged or annotated document advantageously may be provided in XML format. The XML document is a structure with a balanced mark up tag each tag specifies a start and end of the section and inside a section there may be nested one or more start end of another section one. Each one of these start end blocks may be a node. Each entity within that becomes a sub node of a tree creating an in memory representation of the document tree that can be traversed to the parent node child node siblings etc. The XML object model then contains the document data and child nodes for each one of the paragraphs or items that have been annotated. An annotation node contains the annotation data. It contains the type of a mark up e.g. conformance link to another document textual node etc.

Optionally the user is provided one or more views in order to assist with analysis of the document. Each of the different views works with the merged document according to one or more embodiments of the present invention. The views may determine document format e.g. by a reference to a document Schema . The user selects the function he wishes to perform on a document e.g. view a report of the document view a map of the document links and mark ups view annotations and or edit the document .

Reference is made to both . The editing view and editing window illustrate one example of editing an intellectual property document here the license. The editing view examines the tree structure of the document or a nesting of levels within a document. Here there are articles at the outermost levels sections within that and perhaps each section has clauses with sub clauses. They may be broken down separately. In this case there is an article at the outer most level which is at the same level as the preamble nested within that article 1 Grant of Licenses there is article 1.1 Trade Secret License . The entire text for Trade Secret Licenses may be contained within one node in the document object model. The Trade Secret License tag may be contained elsewhere within that node and embedded therein 1.1 Trade Secret License is a node the child node of that is the text of the paragraph etc. At another child node of Section 1.1 there is provided a conformance mark up displayed as illustrated in in the mark up window . The data and or attributes within the conformance mark up would indicate that there is a possible conflict together with the contents of the text within that child node or within a further child node thereof. This mark up information for the illustrated conformance item may be associated with Section 1.1 as a separate node.

With regard to the illustrated Section 1.1 the user may select the node indicated as selected e.g. by a frame e.g. by a double click or click inside the frame . The view may change to an editing view such as a frame with scroll bars. The user may modify the content of the selected information. The system automatically updates the original document information.

Reference is again made to both illustrating an example mark up window and annotation view within one or more embodiments of a data analyzer architecture. The annotation view and mark up window display the mark up associated with document and or documents to which the document has been linked. For example the systems traverse the object model tree in memory locate annotations that exist within that tree and locate the particular corresponding annotation s for items at a given level within the tree. It is also aware of the document object model in this example.

Reference is again made to both illustrating the map view together with the map window . The map view reviews each of the nodes within the selected document and displays them for example within a tree or a map format. In the present example it displays a tree of boxes representing nodes within the document nodes of other documents connected from the selected document and or annotations associated with the document and lines connecting the boxes together representing links from the document or nodes therein to other documents or nodes therein and or associated annotations. It is working off of the object model in this example.

Reference is again made to both . The report view and report window look at different elements of the document nodes and annotations and pull them together into a textual representation and or summary.

Advantageously each of the views is provided as a plug in to the system architecture or similar fashion to enable views to be added omitted supplemented and or combined. Other views may be provided and the examples herein are provided merely for illustration of the underlying principals. Further although it is advantageous for the views and or data analyzer to work on one document as a whole the document could be provided in multiple parts and or with separate annotations.

Reference is now made to showing an example embodiment of an optional data flow for splitting an annotated document. In this conceptual illustration the annotation data stream is separate from the document data stream and the annotations and documents are stored separately. The annotated document is received by the annotation split logic and is broken apart into document output data stream and annotation output data stream e.g. for storage e.g. in an XML document repository and an XML annotation repository . The document is parsed e.g. by an XML parser and a document mark up schema is used to help identify nodes within the document and or annotations. If implemented using XML tags are associated with the document and the tags that are associated with the annotation.

Optionally multiple versions of the document and or annotation are managed e.g. by respective versioning data management systems .

Preferably any kind of annotation data and or any kind of document data and or format may be accepted. They are advantageously converted into XML and then converted from XML into their native format.

If more than one document is embedded within a stream the system may extract that document from multiple documents embedded within a single stream in order to obtain a single document stream in any event.

The document data may optionally be provided in multiple document streams. In the case of the USPTO database data from to is stored in a formatted character mode which is non standard and awkward to handle. This information is stored as provided by the USPTO in multiple files per patent. Those files contain the abstract information information about the inventor a brief description of the claims drawings etc. so there are several documents for a given patent. Optionally all of the annotations that relate to one other document could be stored in one annotation stream and all of the annotations relating to yet a different document optionally may be stored in a separate annotation data stream. There is no requirement that all annotations for a document come from or be stored into a single annotation file.

Annotation merge logic inputs the input data streams and creates a mark up representation of the document data containing referencing or including the annotation data whether by structure or reference for associating the annotation data with its corresponding elements within the document data.

The XML element is a macro that may be cut pasted and inserted into another section of the document by reference. Hence one alternative according to one or more embodiments of the present invention is to take the annotation data define each one of them as elements at the top of the file and then simply embed a reference to that element within each of the paragraphs where it needs to be expanded. That provides the mark up copy and it is semantically equivalent to embedding the actual mark up entities within the entities that they refer to in the original document.

There are several alternative ways to include the annotations e.g. write the annotation to a separate XML file and use an include statement to include the contents of that XML file. The concept of the different ways of expanding into the mark up document may be realigned in different ways whether by inclusion of an element the macro type element by doing an include to pull it in from another document or by expanding out the XML code for such representation further containing referencing or including the annotation data.

There are a number of alternative ways in which the data may be provided. The data stream could be for example a named pipe data from a firewall data from a disk or data from a database etc.

According to one or more alternative embodiments of the invention the document data and or the annotation data are stored in multiple data servers and may be accessed via one or more data managers. For example data might be distributed among servers physically located e.g. at a global headquarters of an information service a corporate headquarters of a company of a small law office and or a personal computer.

According to one or more alternative embodiments the document data and or annotation data and or marked up document are provided as data streams. If a data stream contains image data or other binary data one of the data streams may include data for associating the image or binary data with the annotation data and or document data. This is useful if for example there are images that are associated with many of the patents trademarks etc.

The image binary data stream is not necessarily distinct from the document data stream or if appropriate the annotation data stream. The document itself may contain a reference to an image and or the annotation itself may contain the reference. In one or more embodiments of the present invention on the other hand the image binary data stream might or might not be distinct from the document data or the annotation data.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention annotation data may contain an association of an external data stream of e.g. document data. The annotation data may have an association to external data e.g. a hyperlink to a URL web page a fully qualified file name on a network server the document a name of a program a name of a command string that can be executed through a command shell to start e.g. a computer aided design CAD system with a particular CAD file etc.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention associations may be formed between the version of an annotation with a version of the document. Preferably one or more of the input data streams is from a versioning system where there is provided a version control system with multiple versions of a document and or annotation. The system and or user selects one of those document versions and or annotation data from the versioning system. Where both document data and annotation data are provided from a versioning system there may be one or multiple versioning systems.

Marked up input data streams may contain annotation text or may be related to a stream that contains annotation text. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention a marked up document may be received as an input data stream or marked up document coming in to an input data stream. Annotation data may be included that is associated with embedded in or connected with the input data stream. The input data streams may include inter alia annotation data and or a marked up document representation. The system is capable of parsing such marked up document representation. The system may extract from such marked up document representation the annotation data which may be placed into one or more output data streams. The annotations are optionally stripped out and made separate and distinct from the marked up data stream.

The system can review the marked up document and may extract the relationship between the annotation data and the elements of the document.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention there is provided a user interface. When the user selects a different kind of annotation or when the content of the annotation changes for example the user may dynamically change how a particular user interface displays the information that it is working with.

Depending on the type of the annotation e.g. a conformance test one or more parts of the user interface may display themselves differently than for history of the document. Consider that something is displayed in a user interface window. The user selects one of several different annotations that they want to work with. The screen displays the information they are working as it changes in one form or another.

Reference is now made to illustrating an example flow chart for merging document data together with annotation data to produce a marked up representation of the document. At step the user selects a document to be marked up. At step the system determines whether the currently located document is the correct document for marking up. If not at step the system searches for the correct document. Once the correct document is obtained at block the system determines whether the current version is the correct version. If not the system searches for the current version of the document at block . Once the correct version of the current document is obtained at block the system determines whether there is any annotation data for the selected document for the particular user. If the current annotation data is not the correct annotation data at block the system continues to search for the annotation data corresponding to the selected document block . At block if the current version of the annotation data is not the correct version of annotation data then at block the system continues to search for the correct version of the annotation data.

At block the system has the correct version of bother the selected document and the annotation data and the system proceeds to place the document data into a mark up representation of the document. At block the system loops to check for additional items of annotation data. For another item of annotation data at block the system locates the corresponding element within the mark up representation of the document and at block the system associates the annotation data with the corresponding element of the document. When there are no further items of annotation data at block the system provides the user with a marked up representation of the document. Processing ends at block .

Reference is now made to illustrating one example of splitting of a marked up representation of a document into annotation data and document data. At block the system obtains a marked up representation of the document. In blocks and the system loops to obtain each element in the marked up representation of the document determine the annotation s in the element and split out and store the annotations. In blocks and the system separately stores the document data and annotation data. Hence in block the system determines whether there is another element in the document. If so the system obtains the next element in the marked up representation of the document at block . At block the system checks whether the element includes one or more annotations. If so the system stores the annotation s in the annotation data at block . At block the system stores the element in the document data. The system loops back to block for the next element in the document. Once done processing elements in the document the system stores the document data as a new version for this user at block and stores the annotation data as a new version for this user at block . At block the system returns from processing.

If there are no further mark ups and if the document and mark ups are to be saved then at block the system determines whether the marked up document was edited and or was editable. If so the document is stored at step . At step the system determines whether there is one or more saved mark ups to be applied to the document. If not then the system exits. If there are mark ups then at step the system determines whether the mark ups are stored separately from the document. If not then at step the system stores the saved mark ups together with the document. Otherwise at step the system stores the saved mark ups separately from the document and at step stores data representative of the mark up locations within the document. The function then exits processing.

Reference is now made to illustrating an example architecture for use in connection with one or more embodiments of the present invention. In the present example a computer hosts one or more annotations components and one or more linkages components . The annotations component has one or more of the following a component to apply an annotation to a document a component to edit an annotation and a component for document and or section selection . The apply annotation component interacts with the user to create an annotation e.g. using menus free form text cut and paste of text web pages and or hyper links and to apply that annotation to the document or to the selected section of the document . The annotation may be applied e.g. by inserting the annotation into the document by saving the annotation separately in an annotations database and inserting a reference to the annotation into the document and or by saving metadata associating the reference and the document or selected section thereof etc. The edit annotation component interacts with the user to edit an existing annotation e.g. using menus free form text cut and paste etc. and optionally to save the edited annotation. The edited annotation may be saved e.g. by saving the edited annotation with the document by saving the edited annotation separately and optionally updating a reference to the annotation into the document and or by updating metadata associating the reference and the document or selected section thereof etc. The document and or section selection component interacts with the user to determine a portion portions or the entirety of the document to be associated with the annotation.

The linkages component s include one or more of a component to establish indicate and or remove one or more links a component to allow the user to traverse one or more links and a component for document and or section selection. The document and or section selection component interacts with the user to determine a portion portions or the entirety of one or more documents to be associated with a link. A link may be between one or more documents or sections thereof. A document may be linked back to itself or a section therein. The component to establish indicate and or remove a link interacts with the user to determine the document and or section to link from and the document and or section to link to. The link may be established or indicated e.g. by inserting a link e.g. reference pointer etc. into the document by saving the links separately in a links database and inserting a reference to the link into the document and or by saving metadata associating the link and the document or selected section thereof etc. Optionally links and annotations are stored in association. Optionally links are stored within the associated annotations or vice versa. The component to traverse links determines one or more links if any associated with a selected document and or selected portions thereof optionally one or more annotations associated therewith and optionally the document title or description at the node of the link. Further the links component interacts with the user to determine which link to traverse to obtain the link pointer reference etc. to the linked document and to retrieve the linked document and provide to the user. With the retrieved document the user may traverse further links therefrom. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention one or more users are local communicating with the computer and or are connected over a network e.g. the Internet . In the illustrated example the documents database links database and annotations database are local to the computer a further documents database is accessed via the Internet .

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention attributes associated with an intellectual property document are stored apart from the intellectual property document. For example attributes may be stored as metadata. Optionally attributes are stored in conjunction with other annotations associated with the intellectual property documents. A unique identifier is used to locate the related metadata. A serial number issue number other unique identifier or portion thereof optionally in combination with e.g. a country code or intellectual property type indicator may be used to provide a unique identifier.

A type of attribute may reflect that the intellectual property documents are product centric and or services centric. For many companies or concerns everything they sell is tied to a product or a service. Other traits or information may be used as an attribute type. Once a user is able to group intellectual property documents and label the intellectual property documents as being related to one or more attributes and attribute types then the attributes and attribute types may be used for various applications e.g. searching generating reports etc. Hence attribute types may include one or more of a product a service an actor a person or entity who performed an action a user the current owner as provided by the user e.g. not derived by the system from inherent fields or other data an indication that the patent is the company s or a competitor s a project name and or an indication of level of conformance.

Referring once more to the example of product services as a type of attribute assume that a user has determined one or more particular products or services to be associated as an attribute with multiple intellectual property documents. A user can identify the patent s and or other intellectual property associated with a particular product or service by providing information identifying the product or service. Conversely by identifying a particular patent for example a user may determine the products that are relevant to the patent.

Consider for example that a user wishes to analyze a patent from the perspective that the user owns the patent. In this example the user specifies the patent and determines that the patent relates to a particular component. The user may then request a report to see all patents associated with the particular component. Assume further that the attribute type of component is a sub type of the product attribute type. Hence the particular component relates to a particular product. The user may then request a report to see all patents associated with the particular product.

By providing one or more attributes and or attribute types by e.g. pull down menu tree structure or check list a user may easily determine the attribute or attribute type that is desired. For a user with a product or service oriented viewpoint the attribute types may relate to products and or services. The attributes and or attribute types may be pre defined by the system and or may be user customized e.g. by an administrative user.

An intellectual property document may be associated with one or more attribute types and an attribute type associated therewith may be assigned one or more attributes. For example a patent for a chemical dye may have a product type of clothing food and hair care. A query for intellectual property documents related to the product clothing would return results including the patent for the chemical dye.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention a company or user may customize the attributes and or attribute types. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention one or more attributes and or attribute types may be locked so as to be unchangeable except by an appropriately authorized user. An attribute optionally permits addition of free form information by the user e.g. text URL to a file a reference to another intellectual property document an image file a video file an audio file or a file made using another computer software application.

Optionally one or more attributes to be associated with a particular intellectual property document may be determined through e.g. a scanned or typed SKU model number and or a manufacturer batch number.

Optionally information regarding attributes and attribute types can be exported or otherwise provided for use in connection with another entity that has a separate collection of intellectual property documents. Hence according to one or more embodiments of the present invention a company may send its attribute data to an outside IP boutique for use in connection with the IP boutique s intellectual property documents.

Optionally attributes may be assigned to one or more intellectual property documents within a project grouping individually and or as a group. As a further option an intellectual property document may be included in more than one project.

One or more embodiments of the present invention provide for utilizing the attributes as a filter. For example the user could filter the intellectual property documents and view all documents that have a specified attribute or attribute s . Filtration utilizing attributes could be used for example with searching retrieving reporting and or viewing. Optionally filtration could utilize one or a combination of i attribute content ii type of attribute iii sub types of attribute types iv content of a field in the intellectual property document v type of a field in the intellectual property document and or vi information derived from one or more of the foregoing e.g. current owner of record. Optionally where attributes are stored as metadata the metadata can be searched to determine the intellectual property document s having specified attributes.

The determination of intellectual property documents included in a report generated using attributes and or attribute types as a filter can be very flexible. One or more of the attributes and or attribute types associated with the subjects of a report may be included as or the basis for information in the report. For example a report could count the number of trademarks owned by a company for each of several products or service lines.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention the attributes may be provided in a hierarchy structure with attributes sub attributes sub sub attributes and so forth to create a tree structure. An intellectual property document or file may be associated or tagged with anyone or more of these attributes and sub or sub sub attributes. At the time of association or tagging the intellectual property document or file is simultaneously or automatically associated or tagged with all of the attributes that are at a level higher than the particular attribute or attributes with which the intellectual property document or file is associated or tagged. In other words the intellectual property document or file adopts or inherits the tag or associated profile of the attribute or attributes with which it is associated or tagged. In this manner all of the attributes that otherwise would have been selected in a step by step manner may be assigned simultaneously and automatically by tagging the intellectual property document or file with not only the selected attribute s but all of the other attributes that are at a level higher than the particular attribute s with which the document has been associated.

The following provides an example use of one or more embodiments of the present invention. Initially ABC Corp. decides to intake the intellectual property portfolio of a company it acquired XYZ Corp. In this example the XYZ Corp. intellectual property assets have not yet been assigned attributes. The ABC Corp. user performs a search for all patents and trademarks with XYZ Corp. as the current owner of record. This provides a list for example of 2 000 patents and 200 trademarks. The user sorts the list first by type of intellectual property the user then sorts the patents by class sub class and the trademarks by International Class. The user then selects drags and drops into various projects the sorted intellectual property. The projects can be worked on by other users and provide a convenient way to subdivide large numbers of documents. By working through documents within a project a user then may assign attributes to the intellectual property therein. For example consider that one project has patents for copier technology. The user selects one or more patents in the project and chooses to assign attributes. The system prompts the user to provide an attribute type e.g. product. Attribute types may be customized to include in this example Company Division and Technology Type. Acceptable attributes for the selected attribute type s are displayed to the user optionally the user may type in text. In our example the user selects 

This process is eventually performed for all of the documents in the project. Other searches and or sorting can be performed if desired to better identify documents to be grouped into projects. Further the intake can be performed on a periodic basis for example when patents and registrations issue. Portions of the process may be automated if preferred. Optionally a selection of a particular product e.g. model number component name as a product type will cause the higher level attribute types to inherit the appropriate attributes. For example a selection of Copier Technology causes the company and division attribute types to inherit the attributes ABC Corp. and Electrical Division respectively. Optionally an intellectual document may have multiple attributes for an attribute type.

Continuing with the same example a user later wants to retrieve a list of trademarks for a particular product. A search can be performed for such trademarks by e.g. the attribute type product and the attribute of a specified model number and the search will return as results the trademarks that were assigned to the specified model number. This search filtered by an attribute optionally may be combined with searching based on pre existing or inherent document field contents such as country to yield e.g. a list of trademarks on a particular product sorted alphabetically and by country. As another example on the patent side a search for a particular product would yield a list of patents if any relevant to the product.

Similarly an intake can be performed on copyrights. Optionally the copyright information is linked to an electronic copy of the copyright document. The user can retrieve a list of ingested copyrights e.g. for a particular product. Documents and or electronic representations of information relating to other intellectual property are optionally included in the system. For example trade secret related information may be reflected in documents specifying treatment of building access etc. technical data rights may be reflected in licenses contracts may be reflected in licenses non disclosure agreements memoranda of understanding joint development agreements joint venture agreements etc.

The use of the optional multiple layer attributes permits a user to search retrieve or otherwise access one or more intellectual property documents via one or more attributes within the multiple layers. Similarly by accessing the document s the user can easily determine each attribute within the multiple layers. For example the user accessing a user interface patent assigned the attribute Model 123 for the attribute type Product can determine the remaining attributes e.g. copier technology Electrical Division and ABC Corp. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention an intellectual property document may be assigned to one or more sets of attributes. For example the just mentioned user interface patent may optionally be assigned an additional attribute Model 456 which inherits the attributes telephone technology Communications Division and ABC Corp. for the respective attribute types of Technology type Division and Company. A list of intellectual property corresponding to one or more specified attributes may be generated.

According to one or more aspects of the present invention tools can be used to automate at least partially the generation of claim charts. Once the charts are generated they can be organized sorted and or used in connection with reports. Moreover a library of claim charts can themselves be analyzed. Optional tools can be provided to query search sort and issue reports based on multiple claim charts. Furthermore the claim charts can themselves be tagged as previously described so that the analysis can accommodate user specifications.

One or more aspects of the present invention provide for analysis in comparison to an intellectual property e.g. a claim chart of infringement analysis in relation to a patent trademark or copyright. The types of charts provided are appropriate to the underlying intellectual property. For example claim charts are provided for patents likelihood of confusion factors are provided for trademarks and constituent original elements are provided for copyrights.

Within each category of intellectual property various types of analyses may be provided. For example where the intellectual property is a patent types of analysis include e.g. non infringement chart invalidity claim chart freedom to operate product coverage claim chart and general claim construction. Where the intellectual property is a trademark types of analyses might include e.g. likelihood of confusion and confusing similarity. Where the intellectual property is a copyright types of analyses might include e.g. infringement and derivative work analysis. Other types of intellectual property analyses may be used or may be referred to by other names. Generally the analysis compares a selected intellectual property e.g. a patent or patent claims trademark or copyrighted work to a target e.g. other documents and or products typically to determine validity scope and or coverage by the specified intellectual property optionally vis vis the product s .

Analyses can be displayed printed or otherwise presented to the user in one or more representations. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention a representation of an analysis as a chart is static. Alternatively a representation of an analysis as a chart is dynamic where one or more rows columns or cells in the chart are selectable to open an additional window or screen with information related to the selected cell. Optionally the representation includes various items embedded therein. The embedded items optionally may include e.g. thumbnails hyper links a reference to a URL a reference to an other file user provided text etc. Selecting the embedded item optionally results in opening or linking to the item. The system optionally determines the type of the item and begins execution of the related application e.g. the system opens a Powerpoint item in the Powerpoint application.

Optionally the present invention provides for automatic and or semi automatic evaluation of the intellectual property in question. Consider for example that a user selects a trademark infringement analysis together with the trademark the intellectual property document in comparison to an alleged infringing trademark. The trademark infringement analysis may be provided as a chart with for example an enumeration of the likelihood of confusion factors pre populated where possible with information from the intellectual property document and information gathered regarding the alleged infringing trademark. The user can then be prompted for remaining information and any decisions to be made e.g. degree of similarity of the trademarks.

Or consider for example that a user selects a patent invalidity analysis. The user is prompted for the patent to be analyzed and is prompted where necessary to populate the chart with an element by element claim language and or relevant prior art analyses. Where appropriate the user is prompted for a response e.g. yes no or possible for a claim element comparison. The user optionally may interact with the system to insert other information text files etc. into the analysis.

One or more embodiments of the present invention provides for an automatic or semi automatic overall analysis encompassing the element or factor analysis. For example where a patent claim element by element infringement analysis indicates that each element is covered e.g. a yes then the system determines that the patent being analyzed is infringed by the product under consideration. As other examples the system can provide an overall analysis by claim and or by intellectual property e.g. that the patent being analyzed covers the product that the patent being analyzed is invalid that the trademark being analyzed is infringed or not infringed by the trademark under consideration or that the copyright being considered is not infringed by a work under consideration. Aspects of the present invention take into consideration elements in a base claim when performing an overall analysis.

Optionally claim language is automatically populated in a chart for patent analysis. The patent claims are evaluated to determine claim elements which are then populated throughout the chart. Optionally the user can refine the previously determined claim elements e.g. by collapsing multiple elements and or by expanding an element into multiple elements.

One or more optional embodiments of the present invention accommodate components of claims that are not in standard format. Some patent claims include e.g. chemical equations formulas mathematical equations or other information that is not in the same format as the remainder of the claim and or can require a different application program to display. Optionally the present invention provides a concise representation of the different format information e.g. a thumbnail a link etc. Optionally the present invention determines the proper program for handling the different format of the embedded information and displays the information together with the remainder of the claim.

One or more embodiments of the present invention support queries that users may want to pose regarding the charts including for example 

As described previously one or more aspects of the present invention optionally provide for grouping intellectual property documents within a hierarchy. The hierarchy can be presented as e.g. one or more enterprise level trees. An appropriate hierarchy of patents or other intellectual property reflects corporate divisions technologies products and or services within the company or its competitors . However optionally a hierarchy can be customized by a user such as to reflect other logical divisions.

The intellectual property documents that have been assigned a position within the hierarchy inherit the context of their place within the hierarchy. Because a particular intellectual property document may be included in more than one place in the hierarchy it is useful to track the contexts of documents logically or physically separate from the intellectual property document. Hence each intellectual property document may have its usual content and tags that reflect hierarchy context.

An intellectual property analysis or a detail within the analysis may reference one or more documents or files external to the system. For example an analysis may reference a white paper published on the Internet. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the system stores a copy of the external reference. In this manner a current snapshot is created of a transient file. The stored copy of the external reference may be referenced by more than one analysis. Hence the stored external reference may have tags that reflect context.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention context is provided by tagging associated with the document. Context can be inherited from an intellectual property document reflecting characteristics of placement within the hierarchy e.g. an enterprise level tree. Context can also be created by relating one or more intellectual property documents and or one or more external references within an analysis this context reflects the analysis.

Context can be stored e.g. by tags such as in metadata and or by other searchable queryable indices. If the context is stored the context itself is searchable. Optionally the context e.g. a tag is associated with a pointer or other reference to the relevant annotation within the analysis the intellectual property document and or the stored external reference.

Because the tags storing the context are searchable the available types of searches are readily defined by the tags. Hence the analysis context as well as the hierarchical context is searchable. For example the user can format a query reflecting one or more hierarchy context e.g. particular division within the company and analysis context e.g. target of analysis invalid patents .

In accordance with one or more aspects of the present invention an analysis related to one or more particular intellectual property documents can be initiated by e.g. selecting the intellectual property documents. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the user interacts with the system to indicate that an analysis based on the type of intellectual property document e.g. a claim chart for a patent is to be created and to determine the type of chart e.g. an infringement analysis claim chart .

The analysis such as a claim chart may be represented in any of several convenient displays. According to one or more embodiments the analysis is represented as a chart comprising several windows within a frame or several selectable items within a frame.

Analysis context is initially determined responsive to a user assigning values and relations to a particular unit of an analysis. For example a representation of a claim chart would present several cells to be assigned values and or to be related to intellectual property documents and or other documents. One or more cells within the analysis representation correspond to a unit of analysis. The cell comprises information identifying the particular analysis information on the type of analysis e.g. patent infringement information appropriate to the analysis and the particular cell e.g. conformance the relevant intellectual property document and optionally portion of the intellectual property document what it is compared to together with the contextual information inherited from the intellectual property document.

The representation of an analysis such as a claim chart can be determined from the tags that relate to the particular analysis. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention storage of representation itself such as in a Word document is optional.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention for a claim chart the context associated with an intellectual property unit of analysis for a claim chart of infringement analysis include hierarchical context e.g. patent number company division and analysis context for example type of analysis patent patent claim element of patent claim reference annotation and conformance.

Reference is now made to is an example representation of an analysis in a static style. This particular example is appropriate for patent claims analysis. It includes a column for patent claims a column for elements of the claim language a column for annotations e.g. comments relevant to the analysis columns reflecting the conformance of the product under consideration to the claim element and an optional miscellaneous column . In correspondence to the usual element by element analysis the patent claims are divided into elements e.g. preamble and subsequent elements . The annotations column optionally includes e.g. text hyperlinks thumbnails image playable audio and or playable video. The conformance column includes indications in the present example of yes no and unknown or possible . The optional miscellaneous column contains attachments and references e.g. hyperlinks URLs paths etc. locally or networked to any kind of digital media.

According to one example embodiment of the present invention this analysis chart is generated by selecting the patent and indicating that e.g. an invalidity analysis is desired. A unique analysis identifier may be assigned to the particular analysis. Typically the patent is selected from a hierarchy such as an enterprise tree. Optionally the context includes the intellectual property identifier e.g. patent number . The hierarchy context is inherited by the analysis elements. The analysis context of each unit of analysis may be assigned through interaction with the user for example type of analysis patent patent claim patent claim element annotation if applicable conformance if applicable and miscellaneous information if applicable . The claim number claim language and claim elements optionally initially default e.g. to an automatic insertion by the system of the content of the claims of the selected patent.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention one or more features may determine additional information and add it to the chart. Additional information may be determined automatically or with manual intervention. For example claim dependencies may be determined and added to a patent claim chart. is an example of a claim chart corresponding to including an example of a dependencies feature. Here the dependencies feature provides an indication of whether the claim is independent dependent and or multiply dependent as well as the claim it depends from. It includes a column for patent claims a column for elements of the claim language a column for annotations e.g. comments relevant to the analysis columns reflecting the conformance of the product under consideration to the claim element and a column for information representative of the object being compared to the intellectual property . The patent claims are divided into e.g. preamble and elements . The annotations column includes e.g. text hyperlinks thumbnails image playable audio and or playable video. The conformance column includes indications in the present example for yes no and unknown or possible . An optional miscellaneous column contains attachments and references e.g. hyperlinks URLs paths etc. locally or networked to any kind of digital media.

In the above examples charts have been presented in tabular format. Nevertheless because the units of analysis are constructed from stored context the format of the analysis does not necessarily need to be a tabular chart. According to one or more aspects of the present invention an analysis may be presented in a non tabular format. For example illustrates an alternative multiple window view or screen corresponding to a chart. A first analyzed element e.g. the claim s of a patent a trademark or a copyright constituent element is displayed in a first window . A second window provides a display of the object of the analysis e.g. a product being analyzed for patent coverage a trademark being analyzed for confusing similarity or a potentially infringing work. A third window provides a display of e.g. an annotation to be entered relating to the analyzed element and or the analyzed object. In the present example a fourth window provides an optional display of the chart or other open document optionally with tag represented in this example as selectable tabs commands and or links to further information. Tabs commands and or links may include information associated with the chart or other open document regarding e.g. attributes conformance etc.

According to one or more aspects of the present invention a chart includes one or more tags of information optionally specific to one or more types of charts. According to one or more aspects of the present invention tags associated with the chart further may be associated with an intellectual property document in combination with one or more other tags. For example a patent chart may be associated with an infringement analysis that is tagged to a hierarchy context e.g. a particular division of a company to a competitor company and or to a competitor s product etc. Optionally the tags associated with a chart may be populated by being assigned to an enterprise tree structure and inheriting the values of the tree structure. Optionally tags are specific to a type of chart that is an analysis context e.g. indication of patent number indication of type of chart indication of product. According to at least one aspect of the present invention one or more tags are searchable and or may be used for sorting charts organizing charts reporting charts and querying charges. Optionally various search and or report commands are provided to navigate charts and provide reports. The tags for the chart may be presented in any convenient format for example as illustrated in .

Reference is now made to providing an example of a user interface including an intellectual property document tree and an intellectual property analysis application according to one or more embodiments of the present invention. According to one or more aspects of the present invention the patent or other intellectual property to be analyzed is located for example prior to performing the analysis. In the present example patents relevant to a particular corporation have been stored in a document tree . Sub trees optionally are included. The document tree reflects an enterprise hierarchy in this example General Electric and divisions thereof. A portion of the document tree can be expanded to reveal further subdivisions or finally a particular intellectual property document. In the present example once the intellectual property document is selected the system interacts with the user to determine whether the document should be analyzed .

Reference is now made to providing an example of a user interface including an intellectual property document tree and an intellectual property analysis application according to one or more embodiments of the present invention. According to one or more aspects of the present invention the patent or other intellectual property to be analyzed is located for example prior to performing the analysis. In the present example patents relevant to a particular corporation have been stored in a document tree . Sub trees optionally are included. The user in this case has drilled down to a particular intellectual property document . The selected document includes the context determined by its position in the hierarchy. This example user interface also includes an intellectual property organizer tree providing a file structure for temporary storage of pointers to patents. This is useful for example to structure projects comprising patents intended for intake into the hierarchy structure when the patents or other intellectual property documents are positioned in one or more places of the hierarchy they are assigned the context of the position s . Also provided in this example user interface is an explorer for storing user folders files etc.

Reference is now made to providing an example of a user interface including an intellectual property analysis application according to one or more embodiments of the present invention. Here the user has located a particular patent within a subdivision of the document tree . This particular instance of the intellectual property document has a hierarchical context since it is within the hierarchy. The system interacts with the user to determine what actions to perform on the selected document e.g. analyze . Together with the analysis the system will assign analysis context to the particular instance of the intellectual property document. According to one or more aspects of the present invention a synopsis of the selected document is displayed in the synopsis window . In the present example the display includes the abstract of the patent and links to fields within the patent within the patent itself such as inventor assignee classification background brief summary description of invention claims description of drawings and drawings images figures. Optionally the synopsis includes information obtained from other sources e.g. forward references and assignment detail information.

Reference is now made to providing an example of a user interface including an intellectual property document tree and an intellectual property analysis application according to one or more embodiments of the present invention. The user interface displays the intellectual property analysis . In the present example the analysis provides a claim analysis chart. The analysis includes columns for claim number claim language reference e.g. what the intellectual property is being compared to an indication of infringement or indication of other conformance and optional annotations . The user interface includes references to alternative intellectual property applications for example an intellectual property organizer an intellectual property licensing application a docketing application an automated prosecution application an automated filing application and an automated annuity application .

According to one or more aspects of the present invention the patent or other intellectual property to be analyzed is located for example prior to performing the analysis. In the present example patents relevant to a particular corporation have been stored in a document tree . Sub trees optionally are included. A user may drill down through the document tree to a particular intellectual property document for example a patent. The user may select a standard or customized application to perform on the document for example analyze. In the present example the user selects to analyze and the system interacts with the user to determine the type of analysis based on the type of document e.g. patent infringement or conformance analysis. Further the system interacts with the user to determine the analysis. The analysis context and hierarchy context are assigned to the units of the analysis.

For example according to one or more embodiments of the present invention an invalidity analysis reference may include an indication of analysis type invalidity claim chart patent analyzed for invalidity elements in the claim chart and for each element a target document e.g. another patent and location of interest in the target document an indication of whether the claim language is met and one or more user annotations e.g. text hyper links pointers to other files . As another example according to one or more embodiments of the present invention a patent infringement analysis reference may include an indication of the analysis type infringement a particular claim chart a patent analyzed for infringement elements in the claim chart and the target product analyzed for infringement and for each element an indication of the portion of the target and any annotations. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention the references may be utilized in connection for example with searching sorting reporting analyzing over groups of analyses.

Reference is now made to illustrating an example user interface for creation or access of an intellectual property analysis . provides an alternative example of a user interface . Here the user is presented with a hierarchy within which intellectual property documents are assigned. A particular intellectual property document has been selected from the hierarchy . The system interacts with the user to determine that the user wishes to analyze the selected document. The system further interacts with the user to determine the type of analysis and whether the user wishes to create a new analysis or to select an existing analysis . Processing of the analysis continues as described for example above.

The system may prompt the user for further details with regard to the element by element analysis. For example if the type of analysis being performed is an infringement chart there is an issue of whether there is infringement literally and or under Doctrine of Equivalents. Accordingly the system may prompt the user to indicate whether there would be infringement coverage literally and if not by applying Doctrine of Equivalents. This may be implemented for example by providing another pop up box that queries the user as to infringement by application of the Doctrine of Equivalents.

Optionally if appropriate the system may pre determine portions of the analysis based on the analysis up to the point. For example in an infringement analysis it is known that a dependent claim is non infringing if it depends from a claim dependent or independent which is itself non infringing. No further analysis is necessary. One or more embodiments of the present system performing an infringement analysis determine the claims from which a dependent claim depends and whether those claims are non infringing based on a summary of the element by element analysis. If a dependent claim is non infringing due to its dependency the system indicates that the entire dependent claim is non infringing and indicates the basis for the determination. This indication can be displayed in any appropriate manner e.g. an additional column or a pop up box. The user optionally may analyze elements of the non infringing dependent claim.

Reference is now made to illustrating a user interface with an example summary report of intellectual property analyses. Here the user has searched the system to determine the intellectual property analyses involving the particular patent. The system lists optionally by type of analysis each analysis the target of the analysis and the bottom line analysis . For an infringement chart the bottom line analysis is whether or not the target of the analysis infringes whereas for a validity claim chart the bottom line analysis is whether or not the document forming the basis of the analysis is valid. The system can determine the bottom line analysis from the per element validity analysis e.g. or infringement analysis in a particular analysis associated with the document forming the basis of the analysis. Where the particular analysis includes details such as infringement coverage by Doctrine of Equivalents the report optionally includes an indication of which patents are infringed by applying the Doctrine of Equivalents. Other identifying information can be included e.g. creation date author update date and update author . It is not necessary to access the document itself in order to determine the various analyses surrounding the document and hence the relative strength of the document.

Viewed externally in computer has a central processing unit CPU having disk drives . Disk drives are merely symbolic of a number of disk drives that might be accommodated by computer . Typically these might be one or more of the following a floppy disk drive a hard disk drive not shown and a CD ROM or digital video disk as indicated by the slot at . The number and type of drives varies typically with different computer configurations. Disk drives are in fact options and for space considerations may be omitted from the computer system used in conjunction with the processes described herein.

Computer also has a display upon which information may be displayed. The display is optional for the computer used in conjunction with the system described herein. A keyboard and or a pointing device such as a mouse may be provided as input devices to interface with central processing unit . To increase input efficiency keyboard may be supplemented or replaced with a scanner card reader or other data input device. The pointing device may be a mouse touch pad control device track ball device or any other type of pointing device.

Alternatively referring to computer may also include a CD ROM reader and CD recorder which are interconnected by a bus along with other peripheral devices supported by the bus structure and protocol. Bus serves as the main information highway interconnecting other components of the computer. It is connected via an interface to the computer .

Disk controller interfaces one or more disk drives to the system bus . These disk drives may be floppy disk drives such as or CD ROM or DVD digital video versatile disk drives as at or internal or external hard drives . As previously indicated these various disk drives and disk controllers are optional devices.

A display interface permits information from bus to be displayed on the display . Again as indicated the display is an optional accessory for a central or remote computer in the communication network as are infrared receiver and transmitter . Communication with external devices occurs using communications port .

In addition to the standard components of the computer the computer may also include an interface which allows for data input through the keyboard or pointing device such as a mouse .

The foregoing detailed description includes many specific details. The inclusion of such detail is for the purpose of illustration only and should not be understood to limit the invention. In addition features in one embodiment may be combined with features in other embodiments of the invention. Various changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

As one example the information system may include a general purpose computer or a specially programmed special purpose computer. It may be implemented as a distributed computer system rather than a single computer. Similarly a communications link may be World Wide Web a modem over a POTS line and or any other method of communicating between computers and or users. Moreover the processing could be controlled by a software program on one or more computer system or processors or could even be partially or wholly implemented in hardware.

This invention is not limited to particular types of intellectual property. It is intended for use with any type of intellectual property e.g. patents trademarks trade secrets designs sui generis protection copyrights licenses litigations and or other rights. Further various aspects of one or more embodiments of the present invention are useful with documents including those not related to intellectual property.

Further the invention is not limited to particular protocols for communication. Any appropriate communication protocol may be used.

The report may be developed in connection with HTML display format. Although HTML is the preferred display format it is possible to utilize alternative display formats for displaying a report and obtaining user instructions. The invention has been discussed in connection with particular examples. However the principles apply equally to other examples and or realizations. Naturally the relevant data may differ as appropriate.

Further this invention has been discussed in certain examples as if it is made available by a provider to a single customer with a single site. The invention may be used by numerous customers if preferred. Also the invention may be utilized by customers with multiple sites and or agents and or licensee type arrangements.

This invention has been described in connection with example data formats for example XML and USPTO defined XML. However the invention may be used in connection with other data formats structured and or unstructured unitary and or distributed.

The system used in connection with the invention may rely on the integration of various components including as appropriate and or if desired hardware and software servers applications software database engines server area networks firewall and SSL security production back up systems and or applications interface software. The configuration may be preferably network based and optionally utilizes the Internet as an exemplary primary interface with the customer for information delivery.

The system may store collected information in a database. An appropriate database may be on a standard server for example a small Sun Sparc or other remote location. The database is optionally an MSQL MYSQL mini sequel server MiniSQL or Oracle. Information is stored in the database and optionally stored and backed up by a back up server periodically or a periodically for example every night along with all other data in the servers that are behind the corporate firewall into a back up storage facility. Back up storage facility comprises for example one or more tape silos that are also used to back up the entire network every night. Data security and segregation of the various customers data is advantageously maintained. The information for example will eventually get stored for example on a platform that may for example be UNIX based.

The various databases may be in for example a UNIX format but other standard data formats may also be used. Windows NT for example is used but other standard operating systems may also be used. Optionally the various databases include a conversion system capable of receiving data in various standard formats.

From the user s perspective according to some embodiments the user may access the public Internet or other suitable network and look at its specific information at any time from any location as long as it has Internet or other suitable access. For example the user opens its standard web browser goes to the address that is specified for its load data and optionally fills out a user ID to log on and a password to identify it as the specific user or the specific customer of that particular information.

Optionally security of the networks is as tight as possible such that the data not only customer data but any information that is beyond the firewall is always protected against any kind of potential intrusion. The user and indeed multiple users concurrently can look at the same information. Advantageously having this system on the Internet enables users at various locations throughout the country or the world to visit the same site at the same time and enter into a discussion or talk group as to what they are seeing what it means and maybe what they can do with that information.

