---

title: Method and apparatus for enabling remote service task based access to functionality provided by one or more remote services
abstract: Methods, apparatuses, and computer program products are provided herein for enabling task based access to functionality provided by one or more remote services. One example method may include generating a task based query, the task based query suggestive of a task to be performed. A method may further include causing the task based query to be provided to a remote service discovery engine. A method may further include receiving an indication of a remote service of a plurality of remote services that is configured to perform the task from the remote service discovery engine, the indication comprising access instructions for querying the remote service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09519506&OS=09519506&RS=09519506
owner: Nokia Technologies Oy
number: 09519506
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20120629
---
Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to task based operating environments and more particularly relate to a method apparatus and computer program product for remote service access.

Methods apparatuses and computer program products are provided herein for enabling one or more tasks to be chained together such that a user interacting with a user interface may scroll back step or otherwise navigate through the one or more tasks in the task chain that may cross one or more software packages. In some example embodiments a task is added to a task chain at the time the task is launched. In further examples a task launch may cause a task to be performed in another software package. Therefore as tasks are added to the task chain a user via the user interface may scroll backwards and forwards through the tasks and advantageously for example may scroll through tasks across software packages. The user may then select a particular task in the task chain which enables the user to view that task in the particular software package that generated and or otherwise provided the task.

Methods apparatuses and computer program products are provided herein for enabling task based access to functionality provided by one or more remote services. In some example embodiments a task based query may be generated in an instance in which a local software package is not configured to provide functionality that corresponds to an identified task. In other example embodiments a remote service may provide additional functionality to an identified local software package. The identified task may be input via the user interface generated in response to a user action generated by a software package or the like. The task based query may be generated such that it is configured to be ingested by a remote service discovery engine. In some example embodiments the remote service discovery engine has stored or otherwise determined a functionality provided by a plurality of remote services. As such and in an instance in which a task based query is received the remote service discovery engine may be configured to provide access information for a remote service that provides functionality that corresponds to the received task based query. The access information may then be used to connect to the remote service to provide the functionality that corresponds to an identified task.

In some example embodiments a method is provided that comprises generating a task based query the task based query suggestive of a task to be performed. The method of this embodiment may also include causing the task based query to be provided to a remote service discovery engine. The method of this embodiment may also include receiving an indication of a remote service of a plurality of remote services that is configured to perform the task from the remote service discovery engine the indication comprising access instructions for querying the remote service.

In further example embodiments an apparatus is provided that includes at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code with the at least one memory and the computer program code being configured with the at least one processor to cause the apparatus to at least generate a task based query the task based query suggestive of a task to be performed. The at least one memory and computer program code may also be configured to with the at least one processor cause the apparatus to cause the task based query to be provided to a remote service discovery engine. The at least one memory and computer program code may also be configured to with the at least one processor cause the apparatus to receive an indication of a remote service of a plurality of remote services that is configured to perform the task from the remote service discovery engine the indication comprising access instructions for querying the remote service.

In yet further example embodiments a computer program product may be provided that includes at least one non transitory computer readable storage medium having computer readable program instructions stored therein with the computer readable program instructions including program instructions configured to generate a task based query the task based query suggestive of a task to be performed. The computer readable program instructions may also include program instructions configured to cause the task based query to be provided to a remote service discovery engine. The computer readable program instructions may also include program instructions configured to receive an indication of a remote service of a plurality of remote services that is configured to perform the task from the remote service discovery engine the indication comprising access instructions for querying the remote service.

In yet further example embodiments an apparatus is provided that includes means for generating a task based query the task based query suggestive of a task to be performed. The apparatus of this embodiment may also include means for causing the task based query to be provided to a remote service discovery engine. The apparatus of this embodiment may also include means for receiving an indication of a remote service of a plurality of remote services that is configured to perform the task from the remote service discovery engine the indication comprising access instructions for querying the remote service.

In some example embodiments a method is provided that comprises receiving a task based query. The method of this embodiment may also include determining a remote service of a plurality of remote services that is configured to perform a task related to the task based query. The method of this embodiment may also include generating access instructions for the remote service of the plurality of remote services the access instructions comprising access instructions for querying the remote service.

In further example embodiments an apparatus is provided that includes at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code with the at least one memory and the computer program code being configured with the at least one processor to cause the apparatus to at least receive a task based query. The at least one memory and computer program code may also be configured to with the at least one processor cause the apparatus to determine a remote service of a plurality of remote services that is configured to perform a task related to the task based query. The at least one memory and computer program code may also be configured to with the at least one processor cause the apparatus to generate access instructions for the remote service of the plurality of remote services the access instructions comprising access instructions for querying the remote service.

In yet further example embodiments a computer program product may be provided that includes at least one non transitory computer readable storage medium having computer readable program instructions stored therein with the computer readable program instructions including program instructions configured to receive a task based query. The computer readable program instructions may also include program instructions configured to determine a remote service of a plurality of remote services that is configured to perform a task related to the task based query. The computer readable program instructions may also include program instructions configured to generate access instructions for the remote service of the plurality of remote services the access instructions comprising access instructions for querying the remote service.

In yet further example embodiments an apparatus is provided that includes means for receiving a task based query. The apparatus of this embodiment may also include means for determining a remote service of a plurality of remote services that is configured to perform a task related to the task based query. The apparatus of this embodiment may also include means for generating access instructions for the remote service of the plurality of remote services the access instructions comprising access instructions for querying the remote service.

Example embodiments will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments are shown. Indeed the embodiments may take many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout. The terms data content information and similar terms may be used interchangeably according to some example embodiments to refer to data capable of being transmitted received operated on and or stored. Moreover the term exemplary as may be used herein is not provided to convey any qualitative assessment but instead merely to convey an illustration of an example. Thus use of any such terms should not be taken to limit the spirit and scope of embodiments of the present invention.

As used herein the term circuitry refers to all of the following a hardware only circuit implementations such as implementations in only analog and or digital circuitry b to combinations of circuits and software and or firmware such as as applicable i to a combination of processor s or ii to portions of processor s software including digital signal processor s software and memory ies that work together to cause an apparatus such as a mobile phone or server to perform various functions and c to circuits such as a microprocessor s or a portion of a microprocessor s that require software or firmware for operation even if the software or firmware is not physically present.

This definition of circuitry applies to all uses of this term in this application including in any claims. As a further example as used in this application the term circuitry would also cover an implementation of merely a processor or multiple processors or portion of a processor and its or their accompanying software and or firmware. The term circuitry would also cover for example and if applicable to the particular claim element a baseband integrated circuit or application specific integrated circuit for a mobile phone or a similar integrated circuit in a server a cellular network device or other network device.

Example operating system environments are generally application centric. In an example application centric operating system environment a user is able to launch an application by selecting an icon or some other representation of the application. In application centric operating system environments a user is required to select a particular application that would enable a particular set of tasks to be performed. Once inside the application the user may then take a variety of different actions that may result in particular functionality. For example an email application may be opened by selecting an icon that looks like a letter. Once opened a user may read a message send a message and or the like. By way of further example a user of an email application may have three different windows or views open a first view that contains a draft email message to a first person a second view containing a received message from a second person and a third containing an inbox. Further still a user may also have a social media application open with a number of windows or views. In an example application centric operating system environment the user may switch between currently active applications. The user however always enters the application through a front end that generally starts with a splash screen followed by a default view.

In some examples an application centric operating system may comprise a process manager which may be further configured to display a list of applications and a list of windows that are tied to those one or more applications. In these cases and in an instance in which the system or user shuts down the application then all windows related to that application may be removed and or may disappear from view. Once removed from view in order to access a particular feature or perform a task within the application the user must again open the application and potentially navigate through a splash screen and then through the application to a screen that may provide the particular feature or functionality.

In some examples an application centric operating system may respond to a voice prompt or other request from a user. However the response is limited to the applications installed and or the preconfigured responses provided by the application centric operating system. Additional input mechanisms may be used in conjunction with an application centric operating system for example an input system that is configured to receive a command such as a command call followed by an identifier. The command call being configured to activate a phone application and initiate a call to the provided identifier. Other short cuts such as call home or call voicemail may be used. However any shortcut such as those shortcuts identified above are configured to open an identified application and or are directly tied to a particular application.

In some examples of a task based system application icons may not be presented to the user may be hidden or otherwise obscured in the user interface thus preventing a user from accessing an application directly. Alternatively or additionally in some example embodiments described herein an application may not be directly accessible by the user. Instead and in some example embodiments a task based system is disclosed herein that is configured to enable a user to provide a task to be accomplished to the user interface. In response the systems and methods described herein may cause a local software package and or a remote service to provide a view take an action and or provide subtask thereby enabling the user to operate in terms of tasks to be accomplished and not in terms of specific applications. Further the user is for example advantageously not limited by currently installed applications.

In some example embodiments user interaction with a user interface is related to a task or a topic to be performed an end state to be achieved an intent to be carried out and or like. In some examples the task or topic received form the user is not application dependent but instead is application independent. For example an application independent task such as play may relate to subtasks such as play music play video play a game and or the like. As such the user may be prompted with those subtasks. Even in an instance in which the task provided by the user via the user interface is play music one or more software packages may be available that can provide music playing functionality. As such a user may no longer be required to select a particular application and then navigate to a particular functionality of that application to perform a task but instead may select a task without being concerned about choosing a particular software package that accomplishes the selected task.

In some example embodiments a task may be defined as a method to invoke functionality in the one or more local software packages and or a plurality of remote services. As such the tasks that are exposed by the one or more local software packages function as an entry point into the one or more software packages. In other words a local software package alone or in combination with a remote service may launch or build a view for the purpose of accomplishing the task. For example and in response to a play music command a music playing remote service may launch build or otherwise provide a view that displays available music to be played.

By way of an additional example a user may propose or input a task compose a status update. In response the system as described herein may determine that this task is related to social media applications and as such may be configured to build launch or otherwise provide a view in a first social media software package that enables the user to perform a status update. Again the status update view is built or launched via the task query management system without causing the user to navigate through the social media software package splash screen and through the other functionality of the software package in order to locate the status update functionality. After completing the status update a new view from a remote service may be launched in an instance in which the task query management system determines that a local software packages does not provide functionality or does provide complete functionality requested via the task. Further and in some examples the task may be provided to a remote service and as such the user may interact with the remote service via a user interface. In this case the task of performing a status update may be performed across multiple software packages and or remote services both local and remote in order to accomplish the task. Alternatively or additionally a task may be performed completely by a local software package completely by a remote service or a combination of the both.

In some example embodiments the one or more local software packages e.g. software that is at least partially stored on a local device may be configured to expose one or more tasks that the local software package is configured to perform. These exposed one or more tasks may then be selected by an example task query management system based on the task that was input via the user interface or otherwise provided to the system. However in some instances the one or more exposed tasks may not correlate to or otherwise be performed by the one or more exposed tasks. In such cases a task based query may be generated based on the task. The task based query may be transmitted or otherwise provided to a remote service discovery engine.

In some example embodiments the remote service discovery engine is configured to comprise a listing of available remote services. In some examples a remote service is service that provides task based user interface extensions that are accessed over a network. The remote service is further configured to present a view in a user interface e.g. the service provides a user interface . For example weather information may be provided in a particular view that is to be shown using the user interface. In other examples a remote service may be configured to present data information or the like that in turn can be used by a task query management system to represent the data information or the like via the user interface e.g. the service does not provide a user interface . For example current weather information may be received but the task query management system may present the weather data in any arrangement via a user interface. Advantageously the remote service is configured for example to extend the functionality of one or more local software packages add additional functionality to the device and or the like.

In response the remote service discovery engine may provide the access information for a remote service to the task query management system. Such that the task query management system may connect to or otherwise access the remote service to provide the requested functionality defined by the task.

The task query apparatus may be embodied as a desktop computer laptop computer mobile terminal tablet mobile computer mobile phone mobile communication device tablet one or more servers one or more network nodes game device digital camera camcorder audio video player television device radio receiver digital video recorder positioning device any combination thereof and or the like. In an example embodiment the task query apparatus may be embodied as a mobile terminal such as that illustrated in .

In this regard illustrates a block diagram of a mobile terminal representative of one embodiment of a task query apparatus . It should be understood however that the mobile terminal illustrated and hereinafter described is merely illustrative of one type of a task query apparatus implementation that may benefit from embodiments of the present invention and therefore should not be taken to limit the scope of the present invention. While several embodiments of the user terminal e.g. mobile terminal user equipment or like are illustrated and will be hereinafter described for purposes of example other types of user terminals such as mobile telephones mobile computers portable digital assistants PDAs pagers laptop computers desktop computers gaming devices televisions and other types of electronic systems may employ embodiments of the present invention.

As shown the mobile terminal may include an antenna or multiple antennas in communication with a transmitter and a receiver . The mobile terminal may also include a processor configured to provide signals to and receive signals from the transmitter and receiver respectively. The processor may for example be embodied as various means including circuitry one or more microprocessors with accompanying digital signal processor s one or more processor s without an accompanying digital signal processor one or more coprocessors one or more multi core processors one or more controllers processing circuitry one or more computers various other processing elements including integrated circuits such as for example an ASIC application specific integrated circuit or FPGA field programmable gate array or some combination thereof. Accordingly although illustrated in as a single processor in some embodiments the processor comprises a plurality of processors. These signals sent and received by the processor may include signaling information in accordance with an air interface standard of an applicable cellular system and or any number of different wireline or wireless networking techniques comprising but not limited to Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi wireless local access network WLAN techniques such as Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 802.16 and or the like. In addition these signals may include speech data user generated data user requested data and or the like. In this regard the mobile terminal may be capable of operating with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types access types and or the like. More particularly the mobile terminal may be capable of operating in accordance with various first generation 1G second generation 2G 2.5G third generation 3G communication protocols fourth generation 4G communication protocols Internet Protocol Multimedia Subsystem IMS communication protocols e.g. session initiation protocol SIP and or the like. For example the mobile terminal may be capable of operating in accordance with 2G wireless communication protocols IS 136 Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Global System for Mobile communications GSM IS 95 Code Division Multiple Access CDMA and or the like. Also for example the mobile terminal may be capable of operating in accordance with 2.5G wireless communication protocols General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE and or the like. Further for example the mobile terminal may be capable of operating in accordance with 3G wireless communication protocols such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Code Division Multiple Access 2000 CDMA2000 Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA and or the like. The mobile terminal may be additionally capable of operating in accordance with 3.9G wireless communication protocols such as Long Term Evolution LTE or Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN and or the like. Additionally for example the mobile terminal may be capable of operating in accordance with fourth generation 4G wireless communication protocols and or the like as well as similar wireless communication protocols that may be developed in the future.

Some Narrow band Advanced Mobile Phone System NAMPS as well as Total Access Communication System TACS mobile terminals may also benefit from embodiments of this invention as should dual or higher mode phones e.g. digital analog or TDMA CDMA analog phones . Additionally the mobile terminal may be capable of operating according to WiFi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX protocols.

It is understood that the processor may comprise circuitry for implementing audio video and logic functions of the mobile terminal . For example the processor may comprise a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device an analog to digital converter a digital to analog converter and or the like. Control and signal processing functions of the mobile terminal may be allocated between these devices according to their respective capabilities. Further the processor may comprise functionality to operate one or more software packages which may be stored in memory. For example the processor may be capable of operating a software package that provides connectivity such as a view that functions as a web browser. The connectivity program may allow the mobile terminal to transmit and receive web content such as location based content according to a protocol such as Wireless Application Protocol WAP hypertext transfer protocol HTTP and or the like. The mobile terminal may be capable of using a Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP to transmit and receive web content across the internet or other networks.

The mobile terminal may also comprise a user interface including for example an earphone or speaker a ringer a microphone a display a user input interface and or the like which may be operationally coupled to the processor . In this regard the processor may comprise user interface circuitry configured to control at least some functions of one or more elements of the user interface such as for example the speaker the ringer the microphone the display and or the like. The processor and or user interface circuitry comprising the processor may be configured to control one or more functions of one or more elements of the user interface through computer program instructions e.g. software and or firmware stored on a memory accessible to the processor e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory and or the like . The mobile terminal may comprise sensors such as a GPS which may determine location information for the user. Although not shown the mobile terminal may comprise a battery for powering various circuits related to the mobile terminal for example a circuit to provide mechanical vibration as a detectable output. The user input interface may comprise devices allowing the mobile terminal to receive data such as a keypad a touch display not shown a joystick not shown and or other input device. In embodiments including a keypad the keypad may comprise numeric 0 9 and related keys and or other keys for operating the mobile terminal.

The mobile terminal may comprise memory such as a smart cart subscriber identity module or subscriber identification module SIM a removable user identity module R UIM and or the like which may store information elements related to a mobile subscriber. In addition to the SIM the mobile terminal may comprise other removable and or fixed memory. The mobile terminal may include other non transitory memory such as volatile memory and or non volatile memory . For example volatile memory may include Random Access Memory RAM including dynamic and or static RAM on chip or off chip cache memory and or the like. Non volatile memory which may be embedded and or removable may include for example read only memory flash memory magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disks floppy disk drives magnetic tape etc. optical disc drives and or media non volatile random access memory NVRAM and or the like. Like volatile memory non volatile memory may include a cache area for temporary storage of data. The memories may store one or more software programs instructions pieces of information data and or the like which may be used by the mobile terminal for performing functions of the mobile terminal. For example the memories may comprise an identifier for example an international mobile equipment identification IMEI code capable of uniquely identifying the mobile terminal .

Returning to in an example embodiment a task query apparatus includes various means for performing the various functions herein described. These means may comprise one or more of a task query management system at least one memory at least one processor a user interface and a communication interface . The means of the task query apparatus as described herein may be embodied as for example circuitry hardware elements e.g. a suitably programmed processor combinational logic circuit and or the like a computer program product comprising computer readable program instructions e.g. software or firmware stored on a computer readable medium e.g. memory that is executable by a suitably configured processing device e.g. the processor or some combination thereof.

Note that one or more general purpose or special purpose computing systems devices may be used to implement the task query apparatus . In addition the task query apparatus may comprise one or more distinct computing systems devices and may span distributed locations. Furthermore each block shown may represent one or more such blocks as appropriate to a specific embodiment or may be combined with other blocks. For example in some embodiments the task query apparatus may contain a task query management system . In other example embodiments a task query management system may be configured to operate remotely. In some example embodiments a pre computation module may be configured to perform the computational load and thus may be on a remote device. In some example embodiments the task query apparatus may contain a remote service discovery engine however in other embodiments the remote service discovery engine may be configured to operate at least partially remotely or completely remotely. Also the task query apparatus and or the task query management system may be implemented in software hardware firmware or in some combination to achieve the capabilities described herein.

In an example embodiment components modules of the task query apparatus are implemented using standard programming techniques. For example the task query apparatus may be implemented as a native executable running on the processor along with one or more static or dynamic libraries. In other embodiments the task query apparatus may be implemented as instructions processed by a virtual machine that executes as another program or software package. In general a range of programming languages known in the art may be employed for implementing such example embodiments including representative implementations of various programming language paradigms including but not limited to object oriented e.g. Java C C Visual Basic.NET Smalltalk and the like functional e.g. ML Lisp Scheme and the like procedural e.g. C Pascal Ada Modula and the like scripting e.g. Perl Ruby Python JavaScript VBScript and the like and declarative e.g. Structured Query Language SQL Prolog and the like .

The embodiments described above may also use either well known or proprietary synchronous or asynchronous client server computing techniques. Also the various components may be implemented using more monolithic programming techniques for example as an executable running on a single processor computer system or alternatively decomposed using a variety of structuring techniques known in the art including but not limited to multiprogramming multithreading client server or peer to peer running on one or more computer systems each having one or more processors. Some embodiments may execute concurrently and asynchronously and communicate using message passing techniques. Equivalent synchronous embodiments are also supported. Also other functions could be implemented and or performed by each component module and in different orders and by different components modules yet still achieve the described functions.

In addition programming interfaces to the data stored as part of the task query apparatus can be made available by standard mechanisms such as through C C C and Java application programming interfaces libraries for accessing files databases or other data repositories through languages such as Extensible Markup Language XML or through Web servers File Transfer Protocol FTP servers or other types of servers providing access to stored data.

Different configurations and locations of programs and data are contemplated for use with techniques described herein. A variety of distributed computing techniques are appropriate for implementing the components of the illustrated embodiments in a distributed manner including but not limited to Transmission Control Protocol TCP Internet Protocol IP sockets remote procedure call RPC Remote Method Invocation RMI HTTP Web Services XML remote procedure call RPC JAX RPC Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP and the like . Other variations are possible. Also other functionality could be provided by each component module or existing functionality could be distributed amongst the components modules in different ways yet still achieve the functions described herein.

The processor may for example be embodied as various means including one or more microprocessors with accompanying digital signal processor s one or more processor s without an accompanying digital signal processor one or more coprocessors one or more multi core processors one or more controllers processing circuitry one or more computers various other processing elements including integrated circuits such as for example an ASIC or FPGA or some combination thereof. Accordingly although illustrated in as a single processor in some embodiments the processor comprises a plurality of processors. The plurality of processors may be in operative communication with each other and may be collectively configured to perform one or more functionalities of the task query apparatus as described herein. The plurality of processors may be embodied on a single computing device or distributed across a plurality of computing devices collectively configured to function as the task query apparatus . In embodiments wherein the task query apparatus is embodied as a mobile terminal the processor may be embodied as or comprise the processor . In an example embodiment the processor is configured to execute instructions stored in the memory or otherwise accessible to the processor . These instructions when executed by the processor may cause the task query apparatus to perform one or more of the functionalities of the task query apparatus as described herein. As such whether configured by hardware or software methods or by a combination thereof the processor may comprise an entity capable of performing operations according to embodiments of the present invention while configured accordingly. Thus for example when the processor is embodied as an ASIC FPGA or the like the processor may comprise specifically configured hardware for conducting one or more operations described herein. Alternatively as another example when the processor is embodied as an executor of instructions such as may be stored in the memory the instructions may specifically configure the processor to perform one or more algorithms and operations described herein.

The memory may comprise for example transitory and or non transitory memory such as volatile memory non volatile memory or some combination thereof. Although illustrated in as a single memory the memory may comprise a plurality of memories. The plurality of memories may be embodied on a single computing device or may be distributed across a plurality of computing devices collectively configured to function as the task query apparatus . In various example embodiments the memory may comprise for example a hard disk random access memory cache memory flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disc read only memory DVD ROM an optical disc circuitry configured to store information or some combination thereof. In embodiments wherein the task query apparatus is embodied as a mobile terminal the memory may comprise the volatile memory and or the non volatile memory . The memory may be configured to store information data applications other data repositories such as data repository instructions or the like for enabling the task query apparatus to carry out various functions in accordance with various example embodiments.

The communication interface may be embodied as any device or means embodied in circuitry hardware a computer program product comprising computer readable program instructions stored on a computer readable medium e.g. the memory and executed by a processing device e.g. the processor or a combination thereof that is configured to receive and or transmit data to from another computing device. For example the communication interface may be configured to receive application data over a network. The task query apparatus may interact via the network via a communication interface with one or more remote service discovery engines and or with remote services . The network may be any combination of media e.g. twisted pair coaxial fiber optic radio frequency hardware e.g. routers switches repeaters transceivers and protocols e.g. TCP IP LTE UDP Ethernet Wi Fi WiMAX that facilitate communication between remotely situated humans and or devices. In this regard the communication interface may be capable of operating with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types access types and or the like.

The user interface may be in communication with the processor to receive an indication of a user input such as a task to be performed at the user interface and or to provide an audible visual mechanical or other output to the user. As such the user interface may include for example a keyboard a mouse a trackball a display a touch screen a microphone a speaker multimodal interface and or other input output mechanisms.

While the task query apparatus may be employed for example by a mobile terminal and or a stand alone system e.g. remote server it should be noted that the components devices or elements described below may not be mandatory and thus some may be omitted in certain embodiments. Additionally some embodiments may include further or different components devices or elements beyond those shown and described herein.

Referring now to illustrates a block diagram of a remote service discovery engine according to an example embodiment. In an example embodiment the remote service discovery engine may comprise various means for performing the various functions herein described. These means may comprise one or more of a processor memory communication interface or remote service locator . The means of the remote service discovery engine as described herein may be embodied as for example circuitry hardware elements e.g. a suitably programmed processor combinational logic circuit and or the like a computer program product comprising computer readable program instructions e.g. software or firmware stored on a computer readable medium e.g. memory that is executable by a suitably configured processing device e.g. the processor or some combination thereof.

In some example embodiments one or more of the means illustrated in may be embodied as a chip or chip set. In other words the remote service discovery engine may comprise one or more physical packages for example chips including materials components and or wires on a structural assembly for example a baseboard . The structural assembly may provide physical strength conservation of size and or limitation of electrical interaction for component circuitry included thereon. In this regard the processor memory communication interface and or remote service locator may be embodied as a chip or chip set. The remote service discovery engine may therefore in some example embodiments be configured to implement embodiments of the present invention on a single chip or as a single system on a chip. As another example in some example embodiments the remote service discovery engine may comprise component s configured to implement embodiments of the present invention on a single chip or as a single system on a chip. As such in some cases a chip or chipset may constitute means for performing one or more operations for providing the functionalities described herein and or for enabling user interface navigation with respect to the functionalities and or services described herein.

The processor may for example be embodied as various means including one or more microprocessors with accompanying digital signal processor s one or more processor s without an accompanying digital signal processor one or more coprocessors one or more multi core processors one or more controllers processing circuitry one or more computers various other processing elements including integrated circuits such as for example an ASIC or FPGA one or more other hardware processors or some combination thereof. Accordingly although illustrated in as a single processor in some embodiments the processor may comprise a plurality of processors. The plurality of processors may be in operative communication with each other and may be collectively configured to perform one or more functionalities of the remote service discovery engine as described herein. The plurality of processors may be embodied on a single computing device or distributed across a plurality of computing devices collectively configured to function as the remote service discovery engine . In some example embodiments the processor may be configured to execute instructions stored in the memory or otherwise accessible to the processor . These instructions when executed by the processor may cause the remote service discovery engine to perform one or more of the functionalities of the remote service discovery engine as described herein. As such whether configured by hardware or software methods or by a combination thereof the processor may comprise an entity capable of performing operations according to embodiments of the present invention while configured accordingly. Thus for example when the processor is embodied as an ASIC FPGA or the like the processor may comprise specifically configured hardware for conducting one or more operations described herein. Alternatively as another example when the processor is embodied as an executor of instructions such as may be stored in the memory the instructions may specifically configure the processor to perform one or more algorithms and operations described herein.

The memory may comprise for example volatile memory non volatile memory or some combination thereof. In this regard the memory may comprise a non transitory computer readable storage medium. Although illustrated in as a single memory the memory may comprise a plurality of memories. The plurality of memories may be embodied on a single computing device or may be distributed across a plurality of computing devices collectively configured to function as the remote service discovery engine . In various example embodiments the memory may comprise a hard disk random access memory cache memory flash memory a CD ROM DVD ROM an optical disc circuitry configured to store information or some combination thereof. The memory may be configured to store information data applications instructions or the like for enabling the remote service discovery engine to carry out various functions in accordance with various example embodiments. For example in some example embodiments the memory may be configured to buffer input data for processing by the processor . Additionally or alternatively the memory may be configured to store program instructions for execution by the processor . The memory may store information in the form of static and or dynamic information. This stored information may be stored and or used by the remote service locator during the course of performing its functionalities.

The communication interface may be embodied as any device or means embodied in circuitry hardware a computer program product comprising computer readable program instructions stored on a computer readable medium for example the memory and executed by a processing device for example the processor or a combination thereof that is configured to receive and or transmit data from to another computing device. In an example embodiment the communication interface may be at least partially embodied as or otherwise controlled by the processor . In this regard the communication interface may be in communication with the processor such as via a bus. The communication interface may include for example an antenna a transmitter a receiver a transceiver and or supporting hardware or software for enabling communications with one or more remote computing devices. The communication interface may be configured to receive and or transmit data using any protocol that may be used for communications between computing devices. In this regard the communication interface may be configured to receive and or transmit data using any protocol that may be used for transmission of data over a wireless network wireline network some combination thereof or the like by which the remote service discovery engine and one or more computing devices or computing resources may be in communication. As an example the communication interface may be configured to enable communication with a task query apparatus via the network a radio uplink and or the like. The communication interface may additionally be in communication with the memory and or remote service locator such as via a bus.

The remote service locator may be embodied as various means such as circuitry hardware a computer program product comprising computer readable program instructions stored on a computer readable medium for example the memory and executed by a processing device for example the processor or some combination thereof and in some embodiments is embodied as or otherwise controlled by the processor . In embodiments wherein the remote service locator may be embodied separately from the processor the remote service locator may be in communication with the processor . The remote service locator may further be in communication with one or more of the memory or communication interface such as via a bus.

An example task query apparatus is configured in some example embodiments to enable a user to interact in a task based environment with one or more local software packages and a plurality of remote services via a user interface . The user interface is configured to receive the one or more task requests from a user an application a user interacting with an application a sensor or the like. The task requests may take the form of a selection a text input a voice command and or other multimodal input. The user interface is then configured to pass the one or more task requests to the task query management system .

The task query management system may then query or otherwise determine from the one or more local software packages whether a task is available that matches and or is similar to the received task. A task matches or is similar to another task in an instance which the task received via the user interface has a similar intent end state purpose or the like to the one or more tasks exposed by the one or more local software packages . In an instance in which the task query management system determines that the received task does not match an exposed task the task query management system may be configured to generate a task based query for transmission to the remote service discovery engine . Alternatively or additionally the task query management system may determine that additional functionality additional features an improved user experience or the like may result in a task based query being generated.

In some example embodiments the task based query may take the form of a text string corresponding to the received task. In such examples the task based query may be in the form of a request. For example translate hello from English to Welsh . In some example embodiments the task query management system may generate a task based query based on an intent end state purpose requested functionality or the like of the input task. Alternatively or additionally the task query management system may perform pre processing of the search query such as via the processor . For example the task based query may be configured to identify that the task is a translation request between two languages.

The task query management system is further configured to cause the task based query to be transmitted such as via the communication interface to the remote service discovery engine . In some example embodiments the remote service discovery engine is accessible via network however at least a portion of the remote service discovery engine may be stored in the memory . Alternatively or additionally a plurality of remote service discovery engines may be available or otherwise accessible by the task query apparatus .

In some example embodiments the remote service discovery engine is configured to determine access or otherwise crawl such as via the remote service locator a plurality of remote services to determine a functionality and access information for each of the remote services. In some example embodiments the remote service discovery engine the remote service locator or the like may function as a search engine that is configured to crawl or otherwise locate the plurality of remote services . In some examples the description of the functionality of the remote service might be made in any predefined way that the remote service discovery engine can ingest. Alternatively or additionally the access information can similarly be provided in any suitable format that is configured to provide enough information to enable the task query management system to transmit a properly formatted query to the remote service and for the task query management system to understand the results received from the remote service. For example the remote service discovery engine may access a text file or other indication stored in conjunction with the remote service that indicates its functionality as a remote service and access information. Alternatively or additionally remote services may register with the remote service discovery engine .

The access information may include instructions for interacting with the remote service such as but not limited to a how to format a query to send to the remote service b where to send it e.g. a uniform resource locator a fully qualified domain name and c how to interpret the result returned by the remote service. In some examples more than one type of function may be offered by the remote service.

In some example embodiments the appropriate function of the remote service is chosen by the task query management system and access information for that function is provided to the task query management system . Alternatively or additionally the task query management system may provide all the information e.g. all of the functions to the task query management system to enable the task query management system to determine what function provided by a remote service to use.

The access information may be configured to enable a mobile terminal task query apparatus or the like to access the remote service directly. In some example embodiments the access information for the remote service may be stored such as in the memory for future access to the remote service . In such cases the stored access information may be regularly updated so as to enable communications with the plurality of remote services . Alternatively or additionally the task query management system may be configured to access the remote service discovery engine for each request to ensure updated information is provided to the task query management system . Alternatively or additionally the remote service discovery engine may be configured to operate as a portal and as such may provide a connection such as via communication interface with the remote service .

In response to the task based query the remote service discovery engine may be configured to determine at least one remote service of the plurality of remote services that corresponds to or otherwise provides functionality related to the received task based query. In some example embodiments a list of available remote services may be provided to the task query apparatus . The available remote services may then be presented to the user interface for selection by the user. Alternatively or additionally the task query management system and or the remote service discovery engine may select a remote service of the plurality of remote services based on a predefined criteria such as a cost to access a user rating a popularity a last update time a user preference and or the like. For example if the task request was What is the breaking news then a user may be more interested in a less popular news service that has been updated in the last few minutes than a very popular news service that hasn t been updated since last week.

Upon selection and or receipt of a remote service the task query management system is configured to generate a request for the remote service . The request is formatted according to the access instructions received from the remote service discovery engine . The task query management system may then cause the request to be transmitted to the remote service such as via the communication interface the network and or the like. In response the task query management system may receive a user interface view e.g. a web portal view a remote view or the like from the remote service that may be provided to a user via user interface . Alternatively or additionally the task query management system may receive text data or other information to be displayed in the user interface. In such embodiments the remote service may not be configured to provide a user interface and as such the user interface is constructed by the task query management system based on the output received from the remote service .

As is described herein the remote service discovery engine may be configured to crawl or otherwise determine the functionality of one or more remote services . In this example the remote service discovery engine may have discovered two remote services that relate to train timetables. For example the first may be Network Rail Journey Planner and the second may be Train Times . Each remote service may have provided or otherwise allowed the remote service discovery engine to determine a description of the functionality of the remote service and also the access information including the form syntax etc. of queries accepted by the remote service. In this example the remote service may provide the following 

In some example embodiments the remote service discovery engine is configured to determine a remote service that provides functionality for the requested task . As such the remote service discovery engine may apply semantic knowledge such that the words train and time that are selected from the requested task and as such the remote service discovery engine may determine that a remote service relating to train timetables has been requested. The remote service discovery engine may also recognizes London and Liverpool as cities in the United Kingdom UK and may therefore locate a remote service having UK train timetables. As such the remote service discovery engine may determine that the Network Rail Journey Planner is the closer match of the two example remote services available in this example.

In some example embodiments the remote service discovery engine may then identify the network rail journey planner to the task query management system . The remote service discovery engine is further configured to provide the access information for the network rail journey planner. In some example the access information may include information on how to connect with the network rail journey planner. In this example the network rail journey planner may have a syntax of GetTime Origin Destination Time Date . As such the task query management system may cause a request using the syntax above to be transmitted to the Network Rail server. For example GetTime London Liverpool Time Date .

In response the network rail planner may return a result in a format as described in the access information provided by the remote service discovery engine . For example the rail planner may provide details for the next five trains but the task query management system may only cause the next train to be displayed in the user interface such as is displayed in box . Alternatively or additionally the rail planner may have provided a user interface such as in a web browser which is configured to be shown in user interface as shown in

Alternatively or additionally a task may be generated automatically. For example a local software package may be available that provides an option to book tickets to watch a film at nearby cinema. However the user may select a cinema that is not listed in the local software package as such the remote service discovery engine may be automatically queried to locate a remote service that provides functionality for the selected cinema. In such cases the remote service may provide additional functionality to the local software package or may be provided in the user interface in a stand alone fashion.

Accordingly blocks of the flowcharts support combinations of means for performing the specified functions and combinations of operations for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that one or more blocks of the flowchart and combinations of blocks in the flowcharts can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems which perform the specified functions or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

In some embodiments certain ones of the operations herein may be modified marked option or further amplified as described below. Moreover in some embodiments additional optional operations may also be included some examples of which are shown in dashed lines in . It should be appreciated that each of the modifications optional additions or amplifications below may be included with the operations above either alone or in combination with any others among the features described herein.

As shown in operation an apparatus embodied for example by a task query apparatus and or a mobile terminal may include means such as the task query management system the processor or the like for determining that the task to be performed is to be transmitted to the remote service discovery engine the determination based on a determined functionality of a plurality of local software packages. As shown in operation an apparatus embodied for example by a task query apparatus and or a mobile terminal may include means such as the task query management system the processor or the like for generating a task based query the task based query suggestive of a task to be performed. As shown in operation an apparatus embodied for example by a task query apparatus and or a mobile terminal may include means such as the task query management system the processor or the like for preprocessing the task based query such that the task based query is configured to be a format for input by the remote service discovery engine.

As shown in operation an apparatus embodied for example by a task query apparatus and or a mobile terminal may include means such as the task query management system the processor the communication interface or the like for causing the task based query to be provided to a remote service discovery engine. As shown in operation an apparatus embodied for example by a task query apparatus and or a mobile terminal may include means such as the task query management system the processor the communication interface or the like for receiving an indication of a remote service of a plurality of remote services that is configured to perform the task from the remote service discovery engine the indication comprising access instructions for querying the remote service. In some example embodiments the remote service discovery engine comprises a registry that defines a functionality for the plurality of remote services and provides communication instructions for the plurality of remote services.

As shown in operation an apparatus embodied for example by a task query apparatus and or a mobile terminal may include means such as the task query management system the processor the communication interface or the like for causing the task based query to be transmitted to the remote service based on the communication instructions for querying the remote service.

As shown in operation an apparatus embodied for example by a task query apparatus and or a mobile terminal may include means such as the task query management system the processor the communication interface or the like for receiving a response to the task based query. In some example embodiments the remote service is selected based on a user interaction with the user interface. In some example embodiments the remote service is selected based on at least one of a cost to access a user rating a popularity a last update time or a user preference. As shown in operation an apparatus embodied for example by a task query apparatus and or a mobile terminal may include means such as the task query management system the processor the user interface or the like for causing the response to be displayed in a user interface.

As shown in operation an apparatus embodied for example by a remote service discovery engine may include means such as processor the communication interface or the like for receiving a task based query. As shown in operation an apparatus embodied for example by a remote service discovery engine may include means such as processor or the like for determining a remote service of a plurality of remote services that is configured to perform a task related to the task based query. As shown in operation an apparatus embodied for example by a remote service discovery engine may include means such as processor or the like for generating access instructions for the remote service of the plurality of remote services the access instructions comprising access instructions for querying the remote service. As shown in operation an apparatus embodied for example by a remote service discovery engine may include means such as processor the communication interface or the like for causing the access instructions to be transmitted to a communication device.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover although the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings describe example embodiments in the context of certain example combinations of elements and or functions it should be appreciated that different combinations of elements and or functions may be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. In this regard for example different combinations of elements and or functions than those explicitly described above are also contemplated as may be set forth in some of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

