---

title: System and method for task specific, metered bandwidth control within shared client environment on mobile communications platforms
abstract: A method and system are provided for mobile communications. The system includes a first platform () associated with an MVNE; a second platform () which is integrated with said first platform and which has a plurality of tenants associated therewith, wherein each tenant has a set of mobile communications devices () associated with it, wherein each mobile communications device in the set has an instance of a client installed on it which maintains an open connection to a communications network, and wherein each client is equipped with a graphical user interface (GUI); and a group of offers () selected by a tenant which are displayed on the GUI of each member of the set of mobile communications devices associated with the tenant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08594618&OS=08594618&RS=08594618
owner: Macheen, Inc.
number: 08594618
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120208
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 440 471 Meyer et al. filed on Feb. 8 2011 and entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR TASK SPECIFIC METERED BANDWIDTH CONTROL WITHIN SHARED CLIENT ENVIRONMENT ON MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS PLATFORMS and also the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 563 234 Meyer et al. filed on Nov. 23 2011 and entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR TASK SPECIFIC METERED BANDWIDTH CONTROL WITHIN SHARED CLIENT ENVIRONMENT ON MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS PLATFORMS both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to bandwidth allocation on mobile devices and more particularly to systems and methods for metering bandwidth in a shared client environment on mobile communications devices.

Mobile network operators MNOs are responsible for an increasingly large portion of the communications network infrastructure in the modern world. Typically MNOs are defined as companies that have both a licensed frequency allocation of the radio spectrum over which they can operate and the required infrastructure needed to run an independent mobile network. Such infrastructure may include for example GSMs global systems for mobile communications CDMAs code division multiple access systems which are digital radio systems that transmit streams of bits or PN codes and other core mobile network related infrastructure such as mobile switching centers MSCs and a radio access network.

As mobile networks have continued to develop the companies providing the services required to operate and use these networks have had to adopt newer business models to keep pace with evolving consumer demands. In combination with changing government regulations this has led to the evolution of mobile virtual network operators MVNOs .

Unlike MNOs MVNOs do not have their own licensed frequency allocation and frequently do not even have all of the infrastructure required to provide mobile communications. Instead MVNOs work in concert with other companies having these assets to provide mobile communications platforms to customers. In some instances a company may operate as both an MNO and an MNVO. For example if an MNO lacks a frequency spectrum allocation in a particular geographical region it may operate as an MVNO in that region.

Significant efficiencies are obtained by the MVNO business model since an MVNO does not incur the significant capital expenditure on spectrum and infrastructure that an MNO does nor does it have the time consuming task of rolling out extensive radio infrastructure. Rather this division of responsibilities allows MVNOs to concentrate on their role of value added service providers while many aspects of network maintenance and operation are performed by other companies behind the scenes.

The continued evolution of mobile communications networks has brought about even further specialization of services. Hence while some MVNOs run their own billing and customer care solutions commonly known in the art as business support systems BSS others delegate these services to a mobile virtual network enabler MVNE . MVNEs provide services to MVNOs such as billing network element provisioning administration operations support of base station subsystems and operations support systems and provision of back end network elements to enable provision of mobile network services such as cellular phone connectivity.

A MVNE typically does not have a relationship with end user customers. Instead an MVNE provides infrastructure and services to enable MVNOs to offer services and have a relationship with end user customers. Hence MVNEs allow MVNOs to focus on their core strengths typically brand customer loyalty and marketing while leaving the back end enablement and operations to the MVNEs. An MVNE typically also has shared risk reward arrangements with the MVNO with various kinds of revenue sharing models which are usually tied to the number of subscribers that the MVNO has projected in their business plan.

From a systems standpoint designing an MVNE is a complex process that frequently includes taking commercial off the shelf applications and converting them to work in a multi tenancy model in a seamless fashion. Here multi tenancy refers to the principle in software architecture where a single instance of the software runs on a server serving multiple client organizations tenants . Multi tenancy may be contrasted with a multi instance architecture where separate software instances or hardware systems are set up for different client organizations.

With a multitenant architecture a software application is designed to virtually partition its data and configuration and each client organization works with a customized virtual application instance. In a multi tenancy environment multiple customers share the same application running on the same operating system on the same hardware with the same data storage mechanism. The distinction between the customers is achieved during application design and hence the customers do not share or see each other s data.

There are currently three main types of MVNEs. These may be categorized according to their MVNO solutions 

 a Aggregator MVNEs these offer consulting and integration services and have bundled all of the back office network components through alliances. These promote their ability to quickly provide order to cash solutions to MVNOs.

 b Aggregator MVNEs with their own service delivery platforms SDPs this includes aggregators which have developed one or more back office solutions internally and have complemented them with partnerships to provide end to end enablement services.

 c Specialized enablers these offer only parts of the back office network such as messaging platforms data platforms and billing solutions. They are not solely focused on the MVNO market.

The SDP associated with an MVNE is a set of components that provides a service delivery architecture such as service creation session control protocols for a particular type of service. SDPs became popular with the introduction of open standards as IP technologies were introduced and with the rapid expansion of Voice over IP VoIP for transmission of voice data over packet networks and the Session Initiation Protocol SIP for standardized media control especially regarding enterprise voice communication. In this new standards supported environment convergence of the voice and data worlds has become an avenue for the production of new and better consumer and business services.

The last few years have seen the introduction and proliferation of various SIP programming libraries and products based on the relatively new SIP standard and the IP Multimedia Subsystem standard defined by the 3GPP a collaboration between groups of telecommunications associations to make a globally applicable third generation 3G mobile phone system specification has gained a substantial following. SDPs whose power comes in large part from the quality and acceptance of these supporting standards are rapidly gaining acceptance as widely applicable architectural patterns. SDPs are commonly considered for the telco type environments as core systems which interconnect the customer s access and network infrastructure with BSS and OSS systems operational support systems the computer systems used by telecommunications service providers the term OSS is most frequently used to describe network systems dealing with the telecom network itself supporting processes such as maintaining network inventory provisioning services configuring network components and managing faults . SDPs in this context are usually associated to a particular service regime such as mobile telephones or for converged services.

In one aspect a communications system is provided which comprises a a first platform associated with an MVNE b a second platform which is integrated with said first platform and which has a plurality of tenants associated therewith wherein each tenant has a set of mobile communications devices associated with it wherein each mobile communications device in the set has an instance of a client installed on it which maintains an open connection to a communications network and wherein each client is equipped with a graphical user interface GUI and c a group of offers selected by a tenant which are displayed on the GUI of each member of the set of mobile communications devices associated with the tenant.

In another aspect a method for providing offers over a mobile communications platform is provided. The method comprises a providing a first platform associated with an MVNE b providing a second platform which is integrated with said first platform and which has a plurality of tenants associated therewith wherein each tenant has a set of mobile communications devices associated with it wherein each mobile communications device in the set has an instance of a client installed on it which maintains an open connection to a communications network and wherein each client is equipped with a graphical user interface GUI and c displaying a plurality of icons on the GUI wherein each of said plurality of icons is associated with a third party service provider and is hot linked to a web page associated with the third party service provider.

In a further aspect a data only device is provided which is equipped with an always hot connection to the Internet or to another communications network.

In still another aspect a method is provided for indicating the consumption of network connectivity. The method comprises a providing a mobile communications device which is equipped with a GUI and which is connected to a network and b displaying a gauge on the GUI which graphically depicts the amount of network connectivity remaining.

In another aspect a network adapter is provided which comprises a a connector adapted to releasably engage a port in a mobile communications device thereby bringing the network adapter into electrical communication with the mobile communications device b a tangible memory medium and c a computer program disposed in or stored in said tangible memory medium and containing suitable programming instructions which when executed provide the mobile communications device with free broadband access to a network wherein said free access is limited to specific sites on the network.

In another aspect a system is disclosed for providing broadband communication services comprising a a first entity which distributes wireless mobile communications devices to consumers and b a second entity which provides broadband wireless access to a network wherein said second entity provides said broadband wireless access on a white label basis to said first entity and wherein said wireless mobile communications devices are configured to provide broadband wireless access to the network under a private label applied by the first entity to the white label broadband wireless access.

In still another aspect a method is disclosed for providing broadband communication services. The method comprises a providing broadband wireless access to a network and b selling broadband wireless access to a first entity on a white label basis wherein said first entity distributes wireless mobile communications devices to consumers wherein said wireless mobile communications devices are configured to provide broadband wireless access to the network under a private label applied by the first entity to the white label broadband wireless access.

In a further aspect a method is disclosed for providing broadband communication services. The method comprises a obtaining on a white label basis broadband wireless access to a network b applying a private label to the broadband wireless access and c distributing wireless mobile communications devices to consumers wherein said wireless mobile communications devices are configured to provide broadband wireless access to the network under the private label.

Despite the aforementioned advances in the art and the evolution of SDPs mobile communications platforms today are still limited in some material respects. In particular such platforms and the service offerings that have arisen around them are premised on conventional models for providing mobile broadband services typically involving monthly or annual subscription fees. Such models do not account for or leverage the fact that many consumers access the Internet or other networks for specific purposes. Moreover such models are primarily geared towards providing services such as broadband access to consumers without considering ways in which broadband access may be leveraged to provide new methods and systems for consuming online services.

It has now been found that new service models and product offerings and new means for service consumption may be provided by divorcing service offerings from conventional models of mobile broadband service consumption. This end may be achieved for example through the provision of a means by which consumers can consume services independently of mobile broadband and through a means by which businesses are provided with new opportunities for deriving revenue streams independently of mobile broadband. In particular business models are disclosed herein in which mobile broadband service may be used merely as a pipe for other services offers and consumption models.

For example in some of the systems and methodologies described herein an on device client is provided which is in communication with a platform associated with an MNVO this platform may be integrated with another platform associated with an MVNE . The device may be in an always connected or always hot relationship with a mobile broadband service which is free to the user. However unless the user buys general broadband access by for example purchasing 30 day service pass the user can only go to a website associated with the MNVO or to a set of websites associated with or sponsored by tenants of the MNVO and can only get access to offers provided by tenants of the MNVO. Hence the user is given an always hot connection for free but the user is restricted in terms of what the user can do with the service.

This arrangement facilitates new ways of doing business and providing services independently of mobile broadband service. This arrangement also shifts the traditional paradigm away from purchasing network e.g. Internet connectivity based on time and data to one where connectivity may be purchased based on what the consumer wants to do with the connectivity.

As an example a consumer electronics company that provides mobile communications devices to consumers may use such an arrangement to maintain a hot connection to the device. This hot connection may then be utilized to stream or display offers to consumers and to provide consumers with the ability to browse certain designated websites even when the consumer does not otherwise have access to the Internet or another network. As a result the company has the ability to engage in revenue sharing activities with other parties in exchange for making offers from those parties available to the consumer over the always hot connection the company is providing.

As a further example a service provider may use the systems and methodologies described herein to provide session based network access to consumers. Hence rather than paying for Internet access in general the consumer has the ability to pay for a specific task such as the ability to access the Facebook social network ten times or the ability to watch a particular movie. The service provider which may be for example an MNVO or a tenant thereof thus has the ability to engage in revenue sharing with parties providing these sites or services in exchange for making their site accessible or for providing a hotlink to their site in the real estate provided on the consumer s mobile communications device.

The MNVE platform is preferably an SDP and hence contains a set of components that provides a service delivery architecture such as service creation session control protocols for a particular type of service. The MNVE platform has associated with it a first database containing operator information SIM information and rate plans and a second database containing account information and hierarchies. Of course it will be appreciated that the MNVE platform may contain additional databases that the first and second databases may be combined into a single database or that any the components of the first and second databases may be disposed in other possibly additional databases.

The MNVO platform is a multitenant platform which interfaces with the MNVE platform and with a plurality of tenant branded on device clients . The MNVO platform has associated with it a first database containing data for self service first level support and a second database containing marketing teasers and other advertisement data. Of course it will be appreciated that the MNVO platform may contain additional databases that the first and second databases may be combined into a single database or that any the components of the first and second databases may be disposed in other possibly additional databases.

The MNVO platform is further equipped with suitable client proxies to allow it to interface with the clients and is also equipped with the necessary software and hardware to implement the desired functionalities of the MNVO. Such functionalities may include but are not limited to account registration the ability to add money or credits to an account starting a time pass generating notifications viewing or modifying account information viewing SIM usage and account balances associated with a SIM adding or transferring balances between SIMs providing marketing teasers and supporting a self help tutorial which may include frequently asked questions FAQs or information about how to perform common tasks how to s .

The MNVO platform and the MNVE platform exchange information and otherwise cooperate to support various functionalities for the clients and the associated users. Such functionalities may include but are not limited to account registration the ability to add money or credits to an account starting a time pass generating notifications viewing or modifying account information viewing SIM usage and account balances associated with a SIM and adding or transferring balances between SIMs. These functionalities may further include services required to support the operations of the MNVO which may include but are not limited to providing reports maintaining a network operations center NOC processing operator settlements and providing support services to the MNVO. Such support services may include but are not limited to SIM logistics such as requesting shipment of SIMs activating deactivating or blocking SIMs processing trouble tickets and modifying balances e.g. applying credits or debits .

The reporting functionalities provided by the MNVO platform include service reporting and royalty reporting to the tenants. The royalty reports typically include details on network usage and revenue sharing on a tenant by tenant basis. The service reports typically include details regarding the number of consumers that activated service on a given day the number of users that have received their machines and powered up and the number of users that have not used the service recently.

As previously noted the MNVO platform interfaces with a plurality of tenant branded on device clients . The clients may be thick or thin clients and may be browser based. Each client is equipped with an application programming interface API which has been defined to it. An MNVO may use the MNVO platform to provide a tenant with white label services so that the tenant has the ability to use the client provided by the MNVO and can simply brand it. The tenant may also provide its own client and may cut to the API. As part of the service offering the MNVO platform provides Wi Fi fixed and mobile broadband connectivity to its tenants.

Preferably the MNVO works with each of the tenants to define a set of services the tenant wants to go to market with establish goals and requirements assemble the business processes required by the tenant and instrument the client in both the MVNE and MVNO platforms . From a consumer perspective then the consumer buys a service which is sold by the MNVO and the MNVO and tenant work together to support the care of that service.

The MNVO platform is preferably implemented on a server which is in communication with a self service portal . The self service portal is defined in both the browser and the on device clients and is preferably implemented with a multi layer protocol. The self service portal provides self service 1level support to consumers and allows them to access the functionalities described above. The MNVO platform is also preferably equipped with teaser interfaces such as e mail which may be used for marketing and advertisement purposes.

The MNVE platform is a service delivery platform through which the MNVE interfaces with an MNO and a service aggregator . The MNVE platform interacts with modules or services which provide e mail receipt a payment gateway and a service for order fulfillment and returns . The latter service processes the activation deactivation of IMSIs international mobile subscriber identities subscriber names and addresses free day passes and service IDs.

Referring still to the MNVE platform acts as a service delivery platform which preferably provides comprehensive convergent rating and charging capabilities to handle advanced prepaid postpaid interconnect and roaming requirements. This platform may leverage a software solution which offers a complete solution for multiple play customer care and billing CC B . The CC B may be modular and rapidly deployable and preferably supports such processes as customer initiation order management customer activation service provisioning customer care usage rating invoicing accounts receivable collections and reporting. The software solution also preferably allows the MVNO to manage complex multi layered relationships and create service packages consisting of multiple voice and value added services VAS . The software solution may be deployed in a multi tenant configuration so as to enable the SDP to support specific customer management processes and to order management workflows and billing configurations for each of its MNVO customers on a single instance of the software.

The software solution preferably affords the flexibility for the MNVO to provide custom solutions which are configured to the specific operational requirements of the MNVO. The MNVO customers benefit from the ability to support their brands with multiple service combinations and advanced rating and charging options.

The software suite may also provide a range of customer management and billing solutions which enable the MNVO to deliver a personalized and effective customer experience expand service and product offerings and increase operational efficiency. The software solution may be based on a modular product portfolio that includes billing rating product catalog CRM self care e billing and data analysis. In a preferred embodiment the software solution includes the following modules 

 a a web based customer management module that centrally manages customer information and processes the workflow of customer lifecycle events 

 b an event and usage based rating engine which processes complex rating schemes in real time and supports rating hierarchies for vendor partner and other third party compensation 

 a robust billing and invoicing engine that processes invoices calculates periodic charges usage recurring one time credits and applies applicable discounts promotions and taxes and

 d catalog software that enables the MNVO to define and manage an enterprise catalog of convergent product offerings and packages with advanced pricing and discount schemes.

The web based customer management module enables the MNVO to establish an operational framework to build a customer base while also attracting new customers. This module is preferably a web based customer management application which provides service providers with the following functionalities a customer relationship management CRM b partner management c order management d workforce management e resource management f service configuration and provisioning g accounts receivable and h cash collections. These functionalities are preferably integrated into a single unified front end HTML framework that provides a detailed view of all customer information while streamlining the business processes between activities.

The web based customer management module may be adapted to provide a 360 view of all customer related information and activities. The customer centric functionality of the customer management module enables customer service representatives CSRs to quickly respond to all customer inquiries and requests from a centralized application. Hence with the customer management module CSRs can avoid having to access multiple applications or having to transfer customers to other departments.

The customer management module also preferably processes customer lifecycle events using a flexible rule based workflow mechanism and supports advanced task management with resolutions and escalation procedures. Customer oriented functions such as customer registration service activation online pricing plan assignment customer request and complaint handling the issuance of letters and notices and customer profile modification may all be supported within the framework of an automated workflow mechanism.

The order management processes for the fulfillment of multiple play service orders in the customer management module are processed by an embedded workflow engine. Each step of the order management activities are configured according to specific operational business processes and policies covering the initiation modification and termination of services the automatic provisioning of interfaces and the fulfillment of orders to external devices and third parties. The order management features of the customer management module support the configuration validation and assignment of complex services and bundles.

The event and usage based rating engine processes multiple play services and matrix structured rating schemes. This engine allows service providers to capture all revenue generating opportunities by processing complicated usage and event billing scenarios and hierarchical structure rating plans.

The event and usage based rating engine is preferably a carrier grade rating engine that supports high volume processing of real time and batch event and usage records. The event and usage based rating engine handles traditional retail business and inter carrier rating scenarios as well as multilayered rating hierarchies to support partner and vendor relationships. The event and usage based rating engine is preferably capable of rating expanded services incentive based pricing discount structures and loyalty schemes. The event and usage based rating engine gathers usage information from internal and external sources validates and formats the information identifies the subscribers to be billed and rates the usage according specific subscriber usage plans. The event and usage based rating engine also preferably contains features for monitoring and controlling processes including exception handling re rating and rollback functionalities.

From a single instance of the event and usage based rating engine any combination of products and services may be rated. As a service neutral rating engine the event and usage based rating engine can process a high volume of usage records acquired from various external devices and gateways while handling multiple input streams simultaneously. The event and usage based rating engine may also support pay per speed pay per bandwidth pay per view pay per event volume based and IP time based events.

The event and usage based rating engine preferably incorporates service level agreements and network quality of service ratings to accurately charge for usage. These rating capabilities may allow for processing both in collects and out collects for intricate partner compensation and reconciliation. The event and usage based rating engine also reevaluates data records to check for fraud while rated usage output can be exported to external decision support systems DSS and data warehousing applications.

Standalone or multiple instances of the event and usage based rating engine may be deployed and run in parallel to increase operational throughput. The event and usage based rating engine preferably has a scalable design that is capable of handling rapid and unlimited increases in customer numbers and traffic volume.

The billing and invoicing engine compiles generates and summarizes the elements that make up a customer invoice. The billing and invoicing engine calculates recurring charges based on customer price plans and compiles other relevant charges for a billing period. The billing and invoicing engine calculates the applicable taxes for the invoice according to each customer s tax plan.

The billing and invoicing engine is preferably a convergent billing engine that is able to calculate charges for a multiple of products and services on a consolidated bill or bill for each product and service separately. The billing and invoicing engine helps expand revenue streams by supporting volume discounts cross product discounts rewards and promotions.

With respect to volume discounts the billing and invoicing engine is preferably adapted to aggregate customer usage according to several categories and to apply appropriate volume discounts. With respect to cross product discounts the billing and invoicing engine is preferably adapted to apply discounts based on diverse combinations of products and packages. With respect to rewards the billing and invoicing engine is preferably adapted to dynamically calculate discount eligibility based on customer profiles and usages volumes and to apply rewards in the form of discounts on the invoice free usage or bonus points. With respect to promotions the billing and invoicing engine preferably operates to ensure that customer usage of promotional offers remain within predefined limitations.

The billing and invoicing engine preferably allows invoices to be split into multiple billing cycles while numerous bill runs can be validated and authorized in parallel. The billing and invoicing engine also preferably supports prorated billing for products and plans according to actual active dates and further preferably includes hot bill functionality for out of cycle and on the fly billing.

The billing and invoicing engine helps to ensure billing accuracy through an established bill verification and approval process and provides detailed log files showing generation statistics in order to reduce billing errors. The billing and invoicing engine also preferably includes a rollback functionality that allows bill generations to be reversed and new invoices to be created.

The billing and invoicing engine preferably supports multiple billing formats and multilingual invoices according to specific operational and regional needs. The billing and invoicing engine may also handle third party billing to support the needs of distribution partners and revenue sharing scenarios. Preferably the billing and invoicing engine outputs XML PDF or PostScript files and includes a configurable archiving system.

The billing and invoicing engine is preferably built with an architecture that enables multiple bill runs to be processed in parallel. Preferably bills can be viewed during the validation stage before being committed to the storage database in order to perform quality assurance on output.

The catalog software is preferably an enterprise product catalog that allows service providers to construct and manage a catalog of complex product and package offerings with advanced price discount schemes. The catalog software may be utilized to improve operational efficiency by removing the need to manage multiple instances of product information in different OSS BSS systems.

The catalog software preferably integrates product information with pricing strategies and synchronizes the product catalog across all OSS BSS systems. It may support customer based processes with relevant product information related to customer product fit.

Order management processes are preferably centrally defined in the catalog software so as to enable the configuration and validation of product fulfillment. The product codes stored in the catalog software may be mapped from one system to another for adjusting revenues and computing cost and revenue centers. Moreover provisioning parameters relating to different product lines may be configured in the catalog software thereby enabling centralized and unified control of the capabilities of various network elements. Also price catalog and billing parameters may be managed centrally in the catalog software thereby removing the need to define and maintain product information separately in different billing systems.

The catalog software may be adapted to support multiple play products and packages from fixed line ISP mobile cable TV and utilities based services. The catalog software may be adapted to allow multiple internal departments within a service provider to easily control various aspects of product offerings configurations pricing and discount schemes. The catalog software is preferably equipped with an automated workflow mechanism that enables separate product profiles and tasks to be defined and initiated by other applications in order to achieve a centralized repository for controlling product management.

The catalog software is preferably adapted to allow service providers to define prices for various products and packages and to adjust tariffs and create discount plans. The catalog software also preferably allows for the bundling of products across different business lines into new packages.

The catalog software may also serve as a centralized knowledge center for marketing and technical information about all products and packages. As a result the catalog software streamlines business processes and reduces the time to market with associated defining new products and packages while reducing operational overhead.

As seen in the GUI has a first display portion on which a plurality of tiles or icons are displayed and a second display portion on which status information relating to the user s account is displayed.

The status information includes a gauge similar to a fuel gauge on an automobile display. The gauge provides a real time indication of resource consumption and in particular an indication of how much bandwidth usage or access or connectivity time is available to the user before replenishment will be necessary. Such a gauge may be implemented by for example integrating time and bandwidth consumption rates into a numerical scale in a manner analogous to the way a fuel consumption gauge on an automobile integrates the amount of fuel remaining in the fuel tank with the fuel consumption rate. Hence the gauge provides a visual indication of the consumption of data network time or connectivity occurring on a device such as for example a mobile communications device and may be adjusted as any of these resources are consumed so that it depicts the current amount of network the resource remaining Consumption may be depicted as a function of any suitable variable or combination of variables including but not limited to time and data transfer.

It will be appreciated that the gauge may assume a variety of different formats. For example into addition to the fuel gauge type embodiment described above the gauge may take the form of or may include various dials graphs bars or partially shaded figures or gradients. By way of example but not limitation the gauge may utilize or take the form of any of the graphical depictions commonly used to indicate the remaining amount of battery life fuel or other consumable commodities in business or consumer oriented devices.

Each of the tiles or icons in the first display portion of the GUI is an offer for a service. These offers may be provided by or associated with one or more tenants on an MNVO platform of the type depicted in . Such a tenant may be for example a third party service provider and the tiles or icons may be hot linked to a web page associated with the third party service provider. In some embodiments each tenant may have a plurality of mobile communications devices associated with it. In some embodiments such devices may be data only devices.

Each offer can be expanded upon in the second display portion by selecting the tile or by dragging the tile into the second display portion which causes a page to be displayed on the second display portion of the GUI that contains the details of the offer. In other words selecting a tile causes the focus of the second display portion to change to the context of the offer.

This process is illustrated in for a particular offer see having to do with access to the Facebook social network. In particular the offer provides the user with free access to the Facebook social network while other parts of the Internet or other networks may be unavailable to the user or may require a subscription charge time pass or the like. The connection to the communications network that is provided to the user may be always hot . Hence in the context of the foregoing example in such embodiments the user may enjoy continuous access to the Facebook social network for as long as the offer is in effect.

Referring again to selecting a tile may also cause revision in the gauge shown in to the gauge shown in . In particular in the embodiment depicted the gauge of is revised into the dual gauge of which shows the bandwidth and time remaining Selecting a tile may also activate one or more icons or indicia such as the depicted Macheen Inside indicia which may be displayed in a placeholder in the second display portion .

As shown in the offer displayed in the second display portion may include a radio button or other means by which the user may indicate acceptance of the offer. When the user thus indicates acceptance of the offer the icon corresponding to that service is added to the next free tile position available in the active services field within the first display portion of the GUI . As shown in this causes the second display portion of the GUI to display a configuration window which allows the user to configure certain parameters of the service and also causes display of a call out that indicates that the experience involves free bandwidth.

When the save radio button is selected the panel refreshes to show the current state of the service as shown in which in the embodiment depicted contains information about the user s Facebook account . The resulting page is refreshed anytime the user selects the Refresh now radio button or the corresponding panel focus icon . Clicking on any part of the notification panel or selecting the Go Online to Facebook Now radio button will take the user to the user s Facebook homepage and will prompt the user to start a new time pass if there is currently no active session.

Various modifications are possible with embodiments of the type depicted in . For example the order in which the tiles or icons are displayed on the first display portion of the GUI may be dictated by various considerations such as the order in which each tile or icon was selected or the frequency with which each tile or icon was selected. Moreover while it is preferred that the tiles or icons all have the same size embodiments are also possible in which this is not the case. Embodiments are also possible wherein a maximum size is dictated for the tiles or icons or wherein each icon is displayed within a tile of fixed dimensions.

The manner in which the client is resident on the mobile communications device or on a memory or storage medium associated with the mobile communications device may also vary. For example in some embodiments the client may comprise software which is downloaded on a mobile communications device or is installed on the device by the device manufacturer by a tenant on an MNVO or by a party to a white label process or arrangement.

In other embodiments the client or a computer program or a set of suitable programming instructions which when executed provide the mobile communications device with free access to a network subject to a predefined set of restrictions may be resident on a network access device such as a network access card or a wireless adapter. In particular the client may be resident on or stored in a tangible medium or memory associated with such a device. Such a network access device may be equipped with a USB adapter or another suitable connector which is adapted to releasably engage a port which may be for example a USB port in or is otherwise adapted to couple with a mobile communications device thereby bringing the network access device into electrical or possibly optical communication with the mobile communications device.

Embodiments of the type depicted in may also enable a wide variety of restricted access and consumption models. For example in some embodiments free access or free broadband access to a network may be limited to a single site on the network or to a set of sites on the network these sites may be for example sites associated with or designated by tenants on an MNVO . Access to other sites on the network may be extended on a subscription or pay per use basis on a time limited basis e.g. 30 minutes of access to the Wall Street Journal site per day on a bandwidth usage limitation or allocation basis or subject to various other restrictions or requirements. For example such access may be subject to the requirement that a user view an advertisement prior to gaining access to a site or set of sites on the network.

One significant feature of some of the systems and methodologies disclosed herein is the ability they provide to use Access Point Names APNs to create new business models to settle out mobile broadband access and or usage. APNs are configurable network identifiers which are used by mobile communications devices when connecting to a GSM carrier GSM refers to the Global System for Mobile Communications a popular standard for mobile telephony system . The carrier uses the APN to determine the type of network connection that should be created including such details as the IP address or addresses that should be assigned to the mobile communications device the security methods that should be employed and how the device should be connected to a private customer network. The APN identifies an IP packet data network PDN that a mobile data user wants to communicate with and may also be utilized to define the type of service provided by the PDN e.g. connection to a wireless application protocol WAP server multimedia messaging service MMS and the like .

As shown in an APN consists of a network identifier and an operator identifier . The network identifier defines the external network to which the gateway GPRS support node GGSN is connected and may also include the service requested by the user. The operator identifier defines the specific operator s packet domain network in which the GGSN is located.

The GGSN is a main component of the GPRS network and is responsible for the interworking between the GPRS network and external packet switched networks such as the Internet and X.25 WiMax networks. The GGSN acts as a router to a sub network by hiding the GPRS infrastructure from the external network. When the GGSN receives data addressed to a specific user it checks if the user is active. If it is the GGSN forwards the data to the Serving GPRS Support Node SGSN serving the mobile user but if the mobile user is inactive the data is discarded. On the other hand mobile originated packets are routed to the correct network by the GGSN.

The SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets to and from mobile stations within its geographical service area. The SGSN implements packet routing and transfer mobility management attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN stores location information such as for example current cell and current visitor location register VLR . The visitor location register is a temporary database of the subscribers who have roamed into the jurisdiction of the MSC Mobile Switching Center which it serves. The location register of the SGSN also stores the user profiles such as for example IMSI and addresses used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN. The IMSI international mobile subscriber identity is a unique identification associated with all GSM and UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System network mobile phone users which is typically stored as a 64 bit field in the SIM inside the phone.

APNs are utilized in an APN resolution process. APN resolution is the process of domain name system DNS look up to determine the IP address of the GGSN that provides connectivity to the PDN identified by the APN. When a GPRS mobile phone sets up a data connection which it wants to connect to APN resolution is used to select the GGSN and provide an IP address.

In some embodiments of the systems and methodologies described herein a service provider may create and use one or more unique APNs to control access and or charging for mobile broadband usage. A client associated with the service provider may control access to the service provider s marketing bandwidth APN. Consequently traffic may be allowed or denied based on the application the customer is using.

Such an approach has several possible advantages. For example it may no longer necessary when using this approach for the subscriber to purchase a general mobile Internet access session. In addition a client associated with the service provider may allow access based on rules established by the service provider and or the tenants associated with the service provider. As an example these rules may a allow free access to client administration services provided by the service provider b allow the subscriber to browse buy or use content on the subscriber s device c allow the subscriber to access or use teasers and d allow the subscriber to access specific applications.

The foregoing configuration is illustrated in the system depicted in . As seen therein a client associated with the service provider or MNVO Macheen is configured to use APN IP addresses for paid service and marketing zones. The APN is configured to the MNO operator which itself is configured or managed by the architecture of the service provider platform . This platform architecture checks access rights to the Internet or other network begins the metering process and proxies to the IP address requested. If there is a client service panel request the service provider makes API calls to the MNVE and returns information through the service provider and to the client . A regular APN is used in the event that the subscriber has a paid plan. If the request is to the Marketing Zone then the APN is used which is associated with that pricing charging or settlement model. Suitable communications links and may be employed in the architecture of the service provider platform to enable the foregoing functionalities.

Some of the systems and methodologies disclosed herein are advantageous in that they provide the ability to implement white label processes for services to mobile communications devices. depicts further details of a particular non limiting embodiment of a system over which such a white label process may be implemented it being understood that this system is preferably being implemented within the general system architecture depicted in .

The system depicted in includes a service platform and one or more tenants . The service platform includes both a service provider portion and a subscriber portion . The service provider portion includes such elements as the MNO the MNVE the leased line between the MNO and the MNVE a control module a help desk for processing service tickets and a payment gateway . The subscriber portion includes such elements as email service the device client and a self service portal . Associated with the service platform are such support services as tenant support system support financial operations and system service operations . System service operations work with a logistics provider for the order and shipment of SIMS cards.

Various reporting and point of sale POS services are provided to the tenant . These include service reports S M settlement reports finance and hosted offer management Ops .

Typically the business model of an MNVO revolves around selling mobile services to businesses and consumers. However the white label processes described herein has a business model which is typically business to business to business or business to business to consumer.

In the particular embodiment depicted the process allows a first entity such as for example an MVNO or MNO to provide a second entity with a mobile service that they can brand as their own and market or sell as part of their bill of materials for the devices. For example the second entity may be a consumer electronics company or other distributor or manufacturer of consumer devices and especially mobile technology platforms such as mobile communications devices and mobile computing devices . This arrangement allows such second entities to create unique mobile offerings that showcase their devices and enhance their brand identity without requiring the infrastructure and overhead typically associated with developing and operating a mobile network.

These processes are provided through service interfaces to various tenant integration points such as order fulfillment client applications service reporting point of sale POS 1level support and service definition . The set of service interfaces depicted in facilitates or enables a variety of novel services. For example it allows access to a specific site or sites on the Internet or on another network while blocking access to all other sites on the network when the host device is connected to mobile broadband. This service may be provided to the entire customer base to a subset of the customer base identified by an attribute defined by the tenant or to a single customer.

The service may be provisioned in a variety of ways. For example the service may be provisioned in advance with start times and ends times or it may be provisioned in real time instantly based on selections made by the user from among various options presented. The service may also be defined such that access to the service lasts indefinitely ends at a time specified by the service provider or ends after a defined number of minutes or a defined amount of data. Access to the service may also end in response to a new user action such as clicking a different tile for access to a different website see the embodiment of . The service may be provisioned in real time instantly in response to user actions such as watching an advertisement filling out a survey clicking a link or referring other users. Access to content may also be provided as a fixed charge or free of charge to the subscriber by time increment.

Content services may be targeted to small or medium businesses to enterprises and or to consumers. The content service definition may include access to one network or Internet service e.g. a single URL or a group of network or Internet services e.g. many URLs . The content service may also be defined as access to the Internet or other network for a specific device application such as for example games email or IM .

In some embodiments the methodologies described herein may be implemented through the provision of a suitable hardware device that provides a mobile broadband connection. Such hardware may take the form for example of a USB stick an internal modem a network adapter or another suitable device that allows access to pre defined websites when a connection is made but blocks access to all other websites unless the user purchases access to the full Internet. The hardware device may provide session based access to the Internet or other networks based on time or data limits.

In some embodiments the network or Internet access provided to a user may allow a specific application or set of applications on the user s device or on the host device to access the network while denying access to other applications on the host device. For example in a particular embodiment Yahoo Instant Messenger may be permitted to access the Internet or other network on the host device while other programs such as Skype and Internet Explorer are denied access. In these embodiments service may be provided in all the same ways as indicated above.

In some embodiments network traffic may be allowed from a specific protocol or protocols while network traffic from other protocols is denied. For example HTTP HTTPS traffic may be allowed but video may be denied at least on a free of charge basis using RTSP Real Time Streaming Protocol and or HTTP HTTPS as the blocker. This approach may allow the service provider and its tenants more control over the content that is accessed and consumed by users. By way of example access to Facebook may be offered but the user may not be permitted to watch videos. Service may be provided in all the same ways as indicated above.

In some embodiments the systems and methodologies described herein may provide a customized display experience different landing page . The landing page display may be based for example on a region b machine or device type c tenant or d corporate sponsor. By way of illustration each tenant on an MNVO may have one or more corporate sponsors associated with it and the landing page experienced by a particular user or employed by an instance of a client may be dictated by the corporate sponsor of the tenant associated with that user or client. This approach allows for a customized icon tile selection based on one or more of the foregoing factors.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that the services described herein are not mutually exclusive. Rather they may be accumulated on top of each other. For example a customer may purchase or receive free access to one Internet service URL for a given timeframe for example one limited to a predetermined start time and end time by taking a certain action and may then receive free access or purchase access to another Internet service URL on top of the existing access that is the user may accumulate Internet services access or multiple URLs . In some embodiments free access may also terminate in response to an action taken by a user such as for example clicking on a hot link for access to a particular website set of web sites or class of web sites . The customer may also receive promotions for all SMB to receive access to the tenant s support portal and may then purchase access to specific Internet services URLs in other words the customer may accumulate free access based on account characteristics and individual access based on purchases . Of course it will be appreciated that any combination of the previously outlined services may be accumulated one on top of another.

As a result of the rules application the request for access is either allowed or denied . In the case where the request for access is denied and it was a browser request that request is redirected to a designated website or portal where the subscriber can choose content and application services or session offers or manage their account. If the request is not browser based then a request denied notification is sent to the mobile device subscriber . It is to be noted that the rules have a hierarchy and can be applied to a subscriber a group of subscribers a company a country etc.

As seen therein a subscriber or plan administrator for group plans uses a laptop notebook or other mobile communications device to access the web portal from which the subscriber or plan administrator creates a service request involving a selection of content or application service. The web portal may be accessed over the mobile network with or without an active session or over the Internet . The service administration provides updates and deletes rules as necessary and defines relevant groups hierarchies . Notably no changes are required to applications on the laptop notebook or other mobile communications device being used by the subscriber administrator since any defined rules or policies are applied in the service network .

When a subscriber makes an Internet service request via the Mobile Operator Network it is processed as a real time Internet traffic request . A check is done to determine if there is an active session for this subscriber. If there is an active session then session based processing is performed and the request is granted access on the Internet .

If there is no active session based on time and data that allows the device to access the entire Internet then the selection is passed to CAS processing where a request for service provisioning or activation is made which specifies the service requested and the subscriber or device ID. If the request is granted then the content or application service that was requested is permitted to be accessed on the Internet . In either case over time new services are created with rules and groups or hierarchies are defined.

In some of the systems and methodologies disclosed herein browser based redirects may be utilized as part of the white label process. Hence on the client side a browser attempting to access a network may be redirected to a landing page utilizing a GSM or CDMA network. This is analogous to the situation in which browsers are redirected to a landing page on a Wi Fi connection in a public establishment such as a hotel where the user is then required to enter information in order to use the establishment s Wi Fi network. In the present case a similar experience is delivered over a GSM or CDMA modem instead of a Wi Fi modem.

As used herein the term pipe refers to a technique for passing information from one program process to another. Unlike other forms of interprocess communication IPC a pipe is one way communication only. Basically a pipe passes a parameter such as the output of one process to another process which accepts it as input. The system temporarily holds the piped information until it is read by the receiving process.

While the systems and methodologies disclosed herein have been frequently described or exemplified with reference to mobile communications devices in general and mobile phones in particular one skilled in the art will appreciate that these systems and methodologies are not necessarily limited to being used in conjunction with such devices but instead have application to or may be leveraged by a wide variety of communications devices. Such communications devices include but are not limited to personal digital assistants PDAs mobile or cellular phones portable e book readers notebooks netbooks laptops personal computers PCs navigational systems televisions displays and other such devices.

One skilled in the art will further appreciate that the systems and methodologies disclosed herein are not necessarily limited to any particular type of network or communications means or medium. Thus for example the systems and methodologies may be implemented over the Internet wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs intranets and various combinations of the foregoing. These networks may be radio based hardwired optical and various combinations of the foregoing and may operate over various frequencies of the electromagnetic spectrum.

One skilled in the art will also appreciate that the systems and methodologies disclosed herein are not necessarily limited to any particular type of business model arrangement or business. Thus for example while the systems and methodologies have been frequently described herein in reference to MNVEs MNVOs MNOs and the like due in part to the current prevalence of these models businesses and organizations it will be appreciated that the systems and methodologies described herein may have broader applications and are not necessarily limited to these models businesses and organizations.

One skilled in the art will also appreciate that the systems and methodologies disclosed herein are not necessarily limited to any particular protocol. Thus while reference has been made herein to SDP SIP MLP and other such protocols it will be appreciated that such protocols are subject to change and that the systems and methodologies described herein may utilize or implement new or different protocols.

The above description of the present invention is illustrative and is not intended to be limiting. It will thus be appreciated that various additions substitutions and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing from the scope of the present invention. Accordingly the scope of the present invention should be construed in reference to the appended claims.

