---

title: Operator-assisted device-to-device (D2D) discovery
abstract: A method and system for operator-assisted device-to-device (D2D) discovery is disclosed, which method may be executed as instructions on a machine, where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium. The method can include a transmission station in an operator network receiving a request for data service from a requesting wireless device. The transmission station can identify a serving wireless device to provide the data service for the requesting wireless device. The transmission station can transmit a device discovery message to the requesting wireless device and the serving wireless device. The device discovery message provides a device discovery period for communication via an ad-hoc, D2D network between the requesting wireless device and the serving wireless device. The ad-hoc, D2D network provides for device-to-device communication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09554262&OS=09554262&RS=09554262
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09554262
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120411
---
Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a transmission station and a wireless device e.g. mobile device . Some wireless communication technologies use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM combined with a desired digital modulation scheme via a physical layer. Standards and protocols that use OFDM include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the transmission station can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicates with the wireless mobile device known as a user equipment UE . In IEEE 802.16 WiMAX RANs the transmission station can be referred to as a base station BS . In IEEE 802.11 WiFi RANs the transmission station can be referred to as a WiFi wireless access point WAP .

Wireless mobile communication technology can also include device to device D2D communication where two mobile devices can communicate directly with each other without a transmission station. The mobile devices may include a radio to communicate with the transmission station and a radio to communicate directly with another mobile device. If the radios bands are far enough apart the mobile devices may be active simultaneously i.e. the wireless device may communicate with the base station and another wireless device simultaneously . If the bands are not far enough apart to avoid significant interference the radios may be active at different time intervals. Wireless devices with a single radio may also communicate with the transmission station and the other mobile device at different time intervals.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

As used herein the term mobile device wireless device or wireless mobile device refers to a computing device capable of wireless digital communication such as a smart phone a tablet computing device a laptop computer a multimedia device such as an iPod Touch or other type computing device that provides text or voice communication.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Device to device D2D communication can be used after wireless devices e.g. mobile devices first discover each other. A D2D discovery process can be highly resource consuming on the ad hoc D2D networks including licensed and unlicensed networks. A licensed network includes use of part of a radio spectrum sold to licensed to or used by operators of a private or government radio transmission system. The D2D discovery process can include the mobile devices randomly sending requests for potential peers in hopes that other mobile devices are listening during that same period. The periodic polling of a D2D discovery process in attempts to find other devices that are listening can accelerate the drain of the battery of the mobile device and cause significant interference on the radio band.

A multi radio mobile device contains multiple radio access technologies e.g. LTE and WiFi . An operator network using transmission stations can include a wide area network WAN such as licensed band cellular network using a LTE or IEEE 802.16 standard or a local area network LAN such as unlicensed band IEEE 802.11 i.e. WiFi . An ad hoc D2D network may reside on the same band as the operator network or the ad hoc D2D network can include an out of band OOB network e.g. an unlicensed or licensed band different from the operator network bands . The chances of two single radio wireless devices listening i.e. receiving and transmitting at the same time may be low depending on the wireless devices sleep idle patterns traffic loads and other factors. The chances of two time division duplex TDD i.e. time shared multi radio wireless devices listening and transmitting at the same time may be even lower since the radios e.g. LTE and WiFi of the wireless devices alternate active time. Thus the D2D discovery process may be even longer on a TDD multi radio device than on a single radio device and resources consumed including bandwidth and power may increase.

The D2D discovery can be more efficient and consume less power by using the operator network to assist the ad hoc D2D network in the D2D discovery process. Using operator network assisted D2D discovery can improve performance for multi radio devices running e.g. transmitting simultaneously or in TDD mode. The operator network assisted D2D discovery used herein can be referred to as operator assisted D2D discovery.

The following provides additional details of the examples. illustrates an example process for operator assisted device to device discovery. At least two wireless devices can be in communication with an operator network. A requesting wireless device can be a wireless device e.g. mobile device requesting a data service and or a specific subscriber or subscribers at a specified interval of time. The data service as used herein can include data content and or services. Content can include a multimedia stream a video stream an audio stream a graphics file an audio file a text file an executable file a multimedia file or another type of data file. Services can include gaming social networking and other interactive services. A serving wireless device can be a wireless device configured to provide data services for the requesting wireless device at the specified interval of time. A wireless device can request a data service during one interval of time e.g. be the requesting wireless device and provide the data service at another interval of time e.g. be the serving wireless device . The requesting wireless device and the serving wireless device can have prior authentication from the operator network 

When a user of the requesting wireless device desires data services and or specific subscribers the requesting wireless device can send a request for data services and or the specific subscriber s to a serving transmission station. The request for data services can include the request for data services and or a request for the specific subscriber. A unicast message can be used to send the request for data services. A unicast message is a message sent by one wireless device to one wireless device. The request can include an identification of the data service requested. The request can also include client specific information such as power loading location and other similar information about the requesting wireless device.

Upon receipt of the request for data services the operator network can determine whether the data service can be provided via D2D connectivity or whether the data service is only available via the transmission station. If the operator network determines that the data service may be delivered via D2D connectivity the operator network may check several pieces of information. If the operator network has access to a data repository e.g. a database or a cloud application of available subscriber services the operator network may check the data repository to determine whether the requested subscriber s or if specific subscribers were not requested whether subscribers in the service area have indicated possession of the relevant data service as well as a willingness e.g. permissions to share the relevant data with peers e.g. a requesting wireless device . The operator network may identify one or more potential serving wireless devices e.g. server device to provide the data service .

If the operator network has access to specific location information of the subscribers in the operator network a processor in the operator network may check the location of the requesting wireless device against potential serving wireless devices in the service area. The service area may be a cell for a transmission station or node. The service area may include a macro cell associated with a macro evolved Node B macro eNB a cell associated with a low power node LPN a micro cell associated with a micro eNB a pico cell associated with a pico eNB a femto cell associated with a femto eNB a home cell associated with a home eNB HeNB or a WiFi access point WAP .

Depending on the information available to the operator network the operator network may narrow down the pool of potential peers to the subscribers that were requested have the requested data service are willing to share the requested data service and or are in the vicinity or proximity of the requesting wireless device. If the operator network can narrow the pool of potential peers to a list of potential serving wireless devices the transmission station can send a multi cast device discovery message to the potential serving wireless devices. Otherwise the transmission station can send a broadcast device discovery message to the pool of potential peers in the service area. The multi cast message and broadcast message can be a message from one wireless device to multiple wireless devices. In another example the transmission station can send unicast device discovery messages to the potential serving wireless devices. The transmission station can also send the device discovery message to the requesting wireless device. The device discovery message can include a proposed device discovery period for the D2D ad hoc network. In another example the device discovery message can include the data service being requested and or the location of the requesting wireless device.

Upon receipt of the device discovery message the potential serving wireless devices may check their current conditions e.g. power traffic load and other conditions to determine whether the wireless devices can engage in D2D data service sharing. If the device discovery message includes the requested data service the potential serving wireless devices may also check whether the wireless devices have the requested data service available and permission to share the requested data service.

If location information is included in the device discovery message the potential serving wireless devices may also check their location to determine if at least one potential serving wireless device is in the vicinity of the requesting wireless device. In an example a wireless device can have a location mechanism such as a global positioning system GPS receiver to determine a current location of the wireless device. Other location mechanism can also be used.

If a potential serving wireless device has the requested data service the wireless device is willing to share the requested data service and or the wireless device is in the vicinity or proximity of the requesting wireless device the potential serving wireless device may broadcast a data service advertisement on a D2D link to the requesting wireless device during the device discovery period . During the proposed device discovery period the requesting wireless device may listen on the D2D link for the data service advertisement from the potential serving wireless device. The advertisement may include information about the data service available from the potential serving wireless device. After successfully receiving the data service advertisement the requesting wireless device may transmit an acknowledgement on the D2D link indicating the requesting wireless device s willingness to pair with the potential serving wireless device. If the data service advertisement and the acknowledgement ACK are successfully received the D2D communication can then be setup between the requesting wireless device and the serving wireless device using the D2D link.

In another embodiment the transmission station may send a first device discovery message including a first device discovery period to just the requesting wireless device and a potential serving wireless device in a first pair of wireless devices. The transmission station may send a second device discovery message including a second device discovery period to a second requesting wireless device and a second potential serving wireless device in a second pair of wireless devices where second device discovery period occurs at a different time interval from the first device discovery period and so forth.

In another example the requesting wireless device may broadcast a request advertisement and the potential serving wireless devices in the service area may broadcast data service advertisements during the device discovery period. During the proposed device discovery period the requesting wireless device may listen for the data service advertisements and the potential serving wireless devices in the service area may listen for the request advertisement. Contention based mechanisms may be used to resolve situations where the data service advertisements are transmitted at a substantially same time as the request advertisement. The wireless devices may transmit acknowledgements indicating a willingness to pair . If one request advertisement and one acknowledgement are successfully received or one data service advertisement and one acknowledgement are successfully received the D2D communication can then be setup between the requesting wireless device and the serving wireless device using the D2D link.

The requesting wireless device and the serving wireless device may stop listening or transmitting advertisements after the device discovery period has ended to conserve power. In an example the device discovery period can be ten milliseconds i.e. 10 msec to five seconds i.e. 5 sec . The device discovery period may be long enough for the serving wireless device to transition from a sleep mode or idle mode to an active or connected mode so the serving wireless device can receive the request advertisement or transmit the data service advertisement in the discovery period. In another example the time duration between the transmission of the device discovery message and the start of the device discovery period may be long enough for the serving wireless device to transition from a sleep mode or idle mode to an active or connected mode and still receive the request advertisement or transmit the data service advertisement in the discovery period. In an embodiment when the requesting wireless device and the serving wireless device successfully pair e.g. communicate via the D2D link within the device discovery period the requesting wireless device or the serving wireless device may send a message to the transmission station indicating the successful pairing. In another embodiment when the requesting wireless device and the serving wireless device fail to pair e.g. do not communicate via the D2D link within the device discovery period the requesting wireless device or the serving wireless device may send a message to the transmission station indicating a failed D2D connection. The transmission station may send another device discovery message including a later device discovery period to the requesting wireless device and the serving wireless device which failed to successfully communicate and pair up via the D2D link. In another example the transmission station may send another device discovery message including a later device discovery period to the requesting wireless device and the potential serving wireless devices in the service area. In another example the transmission station may send a no serving wireless device available message to the requesting wireless device indicating that no potential serving wireless device is available. The no serving device available message may occur if no potential serving wireless device is within D2D transmission range or if no serving wireless device has permission to share the data service with the requesting wireless device. The transmission station may continue to provide the data content or service via the operator network connection when no serving wireless device is available via the D2D link.

Using the device discovery message via the operator network e.g. operator assisted D2D discovery can provide additional benefits over using protocols such as WiFi Direct or Bluetooth. In WiFi Direct or Bluetooth at least one of the users of the wireless devices owns the D2D connection between the requesting wireless device and the serving wireless device where security authentication is performed by one of the wireless devices. Establishing security and physically or manually setting up the wireless devices so the devices can find each other can be cumbersome. Security authentication attempts to address the trustworthiness of a user and protect users from each other. In WiFi Direct the users of the wireless devices may be known to each other and security keys and other identifying information can be exchanged when users are in the vicinity of each other. Setting up a D2D connection using WiFi Direct or Bluetooth can be cumbersome and may use a human being as the authenticator in a manual process.

In operator assisted D2D discovery the wireless device may already be authenticated via the operator network connection so no additional authentication may be needed. In addition operator assisted D2D discovery can provide automatic authentication without manual human action.

The operator network can provide the benefits of determining the vicinity or proximity of the requested data services and or subscriber s relative to a requesting wireless device without using a random search process on the ad hoc D2D network to find the requested data services and or subscriber s . The operator network can store information in a data repository about the data services available from specific subscribers. The operator network can also store information in a data repository about which subscribers have permission to access specific data services from specific subscribers. The operator network can also store information in a data repository about the location of subscribers. The operator network can use the device discovery message to wake up the serving wireless device from an idle mode. Allowing the serving wireless device to remain idle until the requesting wireless device is ready can reduce the battery drain on the serving wireless device. The operator network can pair the wireless device requesting the data service with the wireless device that can provide the requested data service. The operator network can schedule a common device discovery period for the serving wireless device and the requesting wireless device to communicate on the D2D link. The device discovery message may include an indication of a channel or a sub channel for device discovery on the D2D link when multiple channels or sub channels are used for device discovery. Although the operator network may not control the serving wireless device and the requesting wireless device the operator network can propose or suggest a device discovery period for the pair of wireless devices to communicate on the D2D link.

In another example the device discovery message can provide information about the requested data services and or subscriber s in a reduced message or coded message to reduce the size of the message transmitted. The reduced message or coded message may be mapped to an identifier of the data services and or subscriber s in the transmission station the requesting wireless device and or the serving wireless device. The request for data service and or subscriber s message the device discovery message the advertisement and or the acknowledgement can include a control message with control signaling. For example a first time a data service identifier is used the message may include a full identifier. In subsequent messages a control message with a reduced size relative to the full identifier may be used. The operator network may setup rules about the data services and or locations tracked by the operator network in the data repository e.g. the database or cloud application . The data services and or locations may track with the serving wireless device and be updated in the subscriber s home and or local agent. As a user moves the data service provided by and or location of the serving wireless device may be updated by home and or local agents at a different transmission station. The data service may be available to other subscribers e.g. the requesting wireless device in the vicinity without the different base station querying the serving wireless device when the serving wireless device moves within the different base station s transmission range.

Another example provides a method for operator assisted device to device discovery as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium. The method includes the operation of receiving a request for data service at a transmission station in an operator network from a requesting wireless device as in block . The operation of identifying a serving wireless device at the operator network to provide the requested data service for the requesting wireless device follows as in block . The next operation of the method can be transmitting a device discovery message by the transmission station to the requesting wireless device and the serving wireless device wherein the device discovery message provides a device discovery period for communication via an ad hoc D2D network between the requesting wireless device and the serving wireless device wherein the ad hoc D2D network provides for device to device communication as in block .

In an example the ad hoc D2D network provides for non authenticated user communication unless authentication is manually entered by users. The request for data service can further include an identification of the data service or data content requested a subscriber requested desired quality of service QoS of the data service a location of the requesting wireless device a transmission power level of the requesting wireless device a traffic loading of the requesting wireless device an allowable transmission rate of the requesting wireless device and combinations of this requested information. In an example the device discovery period can be less than five seconds. The ad hoc D2D network can include a licensed band network a unlicensed band network a wireless wide area network WWAN a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless personal area network WPAN and combinations of these networks. The request for data service can be configured to be received via a unicast message and the device discovery message can be configured to be transmitted via a broadcast multicast or unicast message. The device discovery message can recommend the serving wireless device to advertise during the device discovery period and the device discovery message can recommend the requesting wireless device to listen for an advertisement during the device discovery period. In another example the device discovery message can recommend the requesting wireless device to request the data service during the device discovery period and the device discovery message can recommend the serving wireless device to listen for the request during the device discovery period. In another example the device discovery message can recommend the requesting wireless device to request the data service during the device discovery period and to listen when requesting wireless device is not transmitting and the device discovery message can recommend the serving wireless device to advertise during the device discovery period and to listen when the serving wireless device is not transmitting.

The method can further include the transmission station authenticating the requesting wireless device and the serving wireless device via the operator network s authentication protocol before transmitting the device discovery message. The operation of identifying potential serving wireless devices can further include searching a data repository to determine if the requested subscriber or if none were requested any subscribers have the data service requested by the requesting wireless device. If the data repository contains data service access permissions the operation of identifying potential serving wireless devices can further include checking that the requested subscriber with the data service has permission to provide the data service to the requesting wireless device. If the data repository contains subscriber location information the operation of identifying potential serving wireless devices can further include checking that the location of the requested subscriber with the requested data service and if the location of the requested subscriber exists permission to share the data service with the requesting wireless device are in proximity of the requesting wireless device. If location information does not exist in the data repository the operator network may check the real time locations of the requested subscribers with the requested data service and sharing permission to determine whether they are in proximity of the requesting wireless device. The operation of identifying potential serving wireless devices can further include selecting at least one potential serving wireless device from the list of subscribers in proximity of the requesting wireless device that have the requested data service and permission to provide the data service to the requesting wireless device. If no subscribers which have the requested data service or permission to share the requested data service with the requesting wireless device are in proximity of the requesting wireless device the operator network may inform the requesting wireless device that no potential serving wireless devices exist. The operation of transmitting the device discovery message can further include transmitting the device discovery message via a multicast message or unicast message to the requesting wireless device and at least one potential serving wireless device. The requesting wireless device and serving wireless device can include a user equipment UE or a mobile station MS . The requesting wireless device and serving wireless device can be configured to connect to any combination of a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless personal area network WPAN and a wireless wide area network WWAN . The first wireless device can include an antenna a touch sensitive display screen a speaker a microphone a graphics processor an application processor internal memory a non volatile memory port or combinations these components. The transmission station can include an evolved Node B eNodeB a base station BS a macro evolved Node B macro eNB a low power node LPN a micro eNB a pico eNB a femto eNB a home eNB HeNB a base band unit BBU a remote radio head RRH a remote radio equipment RRE a remote radio unit RRU or a wireless access point WAP .

Another example provides a method for operator assisted device to device discovery as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium. The method includes the operation of receiving a device discovery message at a wireless device from a transmission station in an operator network wherein the device discovery message provides a device discovery period for communication via an ad hoc D2D network between a requesting wireless device and a serving wireless device wherein the ad hoc D2D network provides device to device communication as in block . The operation of communicating with a neighboring wireless device during the device discovery period via the ad hoc D2D network follows as in block .

In an example the ad hoc D2D network does not provide user authentication for the communication. The wireless device can be configured as the requesting wireless device and the neighboring wireless device can be configured the serving wireless device. The method can further include the requesting wireless device sending a request for data service to the transmission station. The operation of communicating with the neighboring wireless device can further include requesting the data service from the serving wireless device via the ad hoc D2D network during the device discovery period.

In another example the wireless device can be configured as the serving wireless device and the neighboring wireless device can be configured as the requesting wireless device. The method can further include the serving wireless device waking up from an idle state or a sleep state to an active state when the device discovery message is received. The operation of communicating with the neighboring wireless device can further include advertising the data service to the requesting wireless device via the ad hoc D2D network during the device discovery period.

The request for data service can further include an identification of the data service and or subscriber s requested desired quality of service QoS of the data service a location of the requesting wireless device a transmission power level of the requesting wireless device a traffic loading of the requesting wireless device an allowable transmission rate of the requesting wireless device and combinations of this requested information. In an example the device discovery period can be less than five seconds. The ad hoc D2D network can include a licensed band network a unlicensed band network a wireless wide area network WWAN a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless personal area network WPAN and combinations of these networks. The request for data service can be configured to be transmitted via a unicast message and the device discovery message can be configured to be received via broadcast multicast or unicast messages.

The requesting wireless device can be configured to send the request for data service to the transmission station and the serving wireless device can be configured to receive the device discovery message from the transmission station via a wide area network WAN authentication protocol. The requesting wireless device and serving wireless device can include a user equipment UE or a mobile station MS . The requesting wireless device and serving wireless device can be configured to connect to any combination of a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless personal area network WPAN and a wireless wide area network WWAN . The first wireless device can include an antenna a touch sensitive display screen a speaker a microphone a graphics processor an application processor internal memory a non volatile memory port or combinations these components. The transmission station can include an evolved Node B eNodeB a base station BS a macro evolved Node B macro eNB a low power node LPN a micro eNB a pico eNB a femto eNB a home eNB HeNB a base band unit BBU a remote radio head RRH a remote radio equipment RRE a remote radio unit RRU or a wireless access point WAP .

In another example a transmission station can be in wireless communication with the wireless device e.g. the requesting wireless device and or the serving wireless device . The transmission station can be included within a centralized cooperative or cloud radio access network C RAN . In the C RAN the transmission station or eNodeB functionality can be subdivided between a base band unit BBU processing pool and a remote radio unit RRU or a remote radio head RRH with optical fiber connecting the BBU to the RRU.

In an example the identification module includes a data repository configured to store the data services available for sharing the sharing permissions and or the locations of subscribers of the operator network. The identification module can be configured to select at least one serving wireless device from the listed subscribers. The identification module can be configured to return a no potential serving wireless device available message when no subscribers in proximity of the requesting wireless device has the requested data service and or permission to share the data service with the requesting wireless device. In another example the identification module can be coupled to the data repository. The data repository can include a database a cloud application or combination of the database and cloud application. In an example the ad hoc D2D network can provide for non authenticated user communication.

In another example the operator assisted D2D discovery device configured for the transmission station can further include an authentication module . The authentication module can be configured to authenticate the requesting wireless device and the serving wireless device via an operator network authentication protocol.

The operator assisted D2D discovery device and configured for the wireless devices and can include an operator network transceiver module and and a D2D transceiver module and . The operator network transceiver module can be configured to receive a device discovery message from a transmission station in an operator network. The device discovery message can provide a device discovery period for communication via an ad hoc D2D network between a requesting wireless device and a serving wireless device. The ad hoc D2D network can provide device to device communication. The D2D transceiver module can be configured to communicate with a neighboring wireless device during the device discovery period via the ad hoc D2D network.

In an example the ad hoc D2D network does not provide user authentication for the communication. The operator network transceiver module and can be further configured to send a request for data services and or subscribers to a transmission station . The D2D transceiver module and can be further configured to request the data service from a neighboring wireless device via the ad hoc D2D network. The D2D transceiver module can be further configured to advertise the data service to a neighboring wireless device via the ad hoc D2D network. The wireless device and can further include a wake up module not shown configured to wake up a wireless device from an idle state or a sleep state to an active state when the device discovery message is received. The data service can be configured to transfer data content including a multimedia stream a video stream an audio stream a graphics file an audio file a text file an executable file a multimedia file and combinations of this data content. The data service can be configured to transfer instructions and or information for services such as gaming or social networking. The operator network transceiver module can use a wireless WAN WWAN protocol and selected from the group consisting of a third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE standard and an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard. In another example the operator network transceiver module can use a wireless LAN WLAN protocol and selected from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 standard. The D2D transceiver module can use a D2D protocol including a 3GPP LTE standard an IEEE 802.16 standard an IEEE 802.11 standard an IEEE 802.15 standard a Bluetooth standard a Wireless Display Port standard a WiGig standard an Ultra WideBand UWB standard a Wireless HD standard a Wireless Home Digital Interface WHDI standard a ZigBee standard a proprietary unlicensed standard a proprietary licensed standard or combinations of these protocols.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The base station and mobile station may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

