---

title: Power control for a low power display
abstract: A low power display device including a power control circuit for controlling power from an environmental energy source to a power storage device that is charged by the environmental energy source, is described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08952665&OS=08952665&RS=08952665
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08952665
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120727
---
This application is a continuation application of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 128 590 filed on May 28 2008 entitled POWER CONTROL FOR A LOW POWER DISPLAY. The disclosure of the foregoing application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In office buildings of some agencies and corporations conference room schedules are printed on paper and posted daily. These paper schedules while accurate at the time of posting are sometimes inaccurate within a few hours. Furthermore the amount of paper used and the human effort required to manually post daily paper schedules can be significant for an organization with a large number of conference rooms. Another example of potentially wasteful paper usage includes regular printing of a menu that changes daily. Generally the periodic posting of information subject to change using paper can be quite inefficient.

Electronic display devices exist as alternatives to daily paper posting of conference room schedules and periodic posting of other information. However these conventional devices can be expensive to purchase and install. For example some conventional devices require investment in proprietary operating systems and applications which may not be compatible with an organization s existing scheduling application. Additionally these conventional devices typically require a wired network connection e.g. an Ethernet connection and a wired power connection with or without a battery backup that continuously supplies power to the devices. These requirements of conventional electronic display devices can render the devices impractical and cost prohibitive for certain applications such as those described above.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods including periodically sampling a voltage of a power storage device determining if the voltage is greater than a turn off voltage and if the voltage is less than a turn on voltage causing a switch to set the power storage device to a charging state the power storage device being charged by an environmental energy source while in the charging state wherein a sampling period for periodically sampling the voltage of the power storage device while the power supply device is in a discharging state is less than an amount of time required for the voltage of the power storage device to decrease from the turn on voltage to a minimum input voltage of a power supply powered by the power storage device.

In general another aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a power control circuit that includes a capacitor a switch circuit having two positions configured to selectively connect a photovoltaic cell to the capacitor and to output position information indicating a current position of the switch and a processing circuit configured to periodically read a voltage across the capacitor and to read the position information from the switch circuit and to set a position of the switch circuit based on the voltage across the capacitor and the position information.

The power control circuit can be configured to have a sampling period for reading the voltage across the capacitor having a duration of less than an amount of time required for the capacitor to discharge from a turn on voltage to a minimum input voltage the minimum input voltage being a voltage required for proper operation of a power supply e.g. a charge pump drawing power from the capacitor.

The power control circuit can be configured to have a sampling period for reading the voltage across the capacitor having a duration of less than an amount of time required for current from the photovoltaic cell to charge the capacitor from a turn off voltage to a voltage capable of damaging the capacitor.

The processing circuit can be configured to maintain a low power state when not reading the voltage across the capacitor or when not performing operations to set a position of the switch circuit based on the voltage across the capacitor. The processing circuit can be configured to set the switch circuit to an on position if the voltage across the capacitor is less than the turn on voltage. The processing circuit can be configured to set the switch to an off position if the voltage across the capacitor is more than a turn off voltage.

Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Paper conference room displays or other general displays based on printed paper grid powered display devices and battery powered display devices can be replaced with a wireless low power display device that is automatically updated as needed to display up to date information e.g. throughout the day . The display device is powered by indoor solar energy stored by a capacitor which eliminates the need for a wired power connection with or without a battery backup . The low power display device saves paper and in the case of conference room schedules replaces the manual process of physically delivering paper schedules to each conference room. Additionally the low power display device eliminates the need for batteries which due to their chemical properties can pose environmental risks and the need to periodically change batteries as required in battery powered display devices and also does not require a connection to a power grid. Use of the low power display can avoid costly infrastructure updates the installation of additional power outlets for example.

The details of one or more embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

The server serves as the central control for the low power display system . The server can be implemented entirely in software e.g. a server application. The low power display system can be designed to utilize the server for the majority of the system s processing needs. This in turn allows the base stations and the low power display devices to be less complex and implemented with less expensive components than if the system s processing was distributed more evenly across all the devices.

The server coordinates the mapping of the low power display devices to the base stations . In some implementations the mapping of a low power display device to a particular base station is based on the radio signal strength of the low power display device . Such radio signal strength mapping techniques can be described in Part 15.4 Wireless Medium Access Control MAC and Physical Layer PHY Specifications for Low Rate Wireless Personal Area Networks WPANs Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE Std 802.15.4 2006. Other mapping techniques can also be used. As part of managing the distribution of low power display devices among the base stations the server can in some implementations also handle failover. That is when a base station fails the server can re allocate the mapping of the low power display devices connected to the failed base station to a functional base station .

In some implementations the server collects aggregates and exports status information and logs for the base stations and the low power display devices . The status information collected can include for example the remaining power of a low power display device the radio signal strength of a low power display device the status messages passed from a low power display device to a base station and the frequency that a low power display device communicates with a base station or a base station communicates with the server .

In some implementations the server is in communication with the base stations over a network. In some implementations the network is a local area network LAN . For example the base stations can have a wired connection to the server by an Ethernet connection i.e. the IEEE 802.3 protocol. Alternatively the base stations can be wirelessly connected to the server on a wireless LAN network e.g. a Wi Fi network standardized by IEEE 802.11.

In some implementations the low power display system can provide real time updated conference room scheduling information throughout the day. The updated conference room scheduling information can be distributed to the low power display devices for display as a replacement for posted paper schedules. Other types of text or image information can alternatively be displayed using the low power display system . For example the low power display devices can display menus rosters advertisements or any other information that can be accommodated by the display of the low power display devices . The low power display devices can also display multiple types of information simultaneously or throughout the day. Further example uses of the low power display system include the posting of general reservation information for resources e.g. gym equipment and facilities such as weight machines exercise machines racquetball courts and basketball courts.

In some implementations in addition to displaying updated scheduling information for a particular conference room a low power display device can also display information about one or more nearby conference rooms. For example the low power display device can display a map of the floor indicating the particular conference room and the closest conference room that is currently available.

In some implementations the low power display system can distribute a particular type of data to a particular low power display device depending on the location of the particular low power display device . For example a first low power display device located outside a cafeteria can receive menu information for display while a second low power display device located outside a conference room can receive the conference room s schedule for display.

In some implementations a calendar application is integrated with an e mail application and the low power display device associated with the office or cubicle of a particular user of the e mail application can be posted outside the user s office or cubicle to display the user s calendar schedule.

Some organizations manage conference room schedules using a calendar application where each conference room is a resource in the calendar application. Typically individuals of the organization can use an interface of the calendar application to reserve a conference room for a particular meeting or event. Calendar data for the calendar application can be maintained on one or more servers remote to the low power display system .

If the low power display system is used to provide conference room scheduling information each low power display device can be associated with a particular conference room that is a resource in the calendar application. The low power display device can be located outside the associated conference room e.g. attached by Velcro to a wall or door of the conference room . Typically several base stations can be placed on each floor of a building to provide coverage for all the conference rooms on the floor.

Each base station is associated with one or more low power display devices as determined by the mapping by the server . A base station can retrieve display information for the low power display devices to which the base station is mapped. For example the base station can retrieve calendar data for the conference room associated with a particular low power display device . In some implementations the calendar data is retrieved from the remote servers using an application programming interface API of the calendar application. The base station can process the retrieved calendar data to generate instructions for rendering the calendar data as an image sized for the display of the low power display device . These instructions are then transmitted to the particular low power display device . In some implementations data for one or more low power display devices is cached at base stations mapped to those low power display devices .

The base station is in communication with the associated low power display devices over a wireless network. In some implementations the wireless network is a wireless PAN. For example the base station can be wirelessly connected to the associated low power display devices on a wireless PAN based on the IEEE 802.15.4 protocol in the unlicensed 2.4 GHz spectrum. The IEEE 802.15.4 protocol works well for ubiquitous communication between devices within a wireless PAN because the protocol delivers low cost and low speed communication. In addition the protocol can be implemented in transceivers capable of communication at low power levels.

In some implementations the base station receives requests from one or more associated low power display devices for display information. Exponential backoff can be used when the base station is unavailable. For example if a low power display device transmits a request for display information to a base station and the base station is not responsive the low power display device can resend another request after a predetermined period of time has past. The periods of time between repeated requests can increase exponentially.

The base station can be implemented as part software and part hardware. In some implementations the base station is a universal serial bus USB peripheral device coupled to a computer. In some implementations the operating system of the computer runs a daemon that listens to the associated low power display devices for requests to update display information e.g. calendar data . The base station includes a transceiver e.g. a transceiver configured to support IEEE 802.15.4 protocol connectivity to communicate with the associated low power display devices on the wireless network.

In some implementations the base station is a small microcontroller based system that does not need to be coupled to a computer for processing. In these implementations some of the processing of the base station can be shifted to the server and the cost of the base station can be significantly lower than the cost of the base station in the USB peripheral device implementation. The microcontroller based system can include for example a microcontroller a small amount of storage a LAN network interface and a wireless PAN transceiver. The storage can be used for caching display data and log records.

Each low power display device is associated with a particular base station as determined by the mapping by the server . In order to communicate with the associated base station the low power display device includes a transceiver for the wireless network e.g. a transceiver configured to support IEEE 802.15.4 protocol connectivity . The low power display device uses the transceiver to request and receive display information from the associated base station . The low power display device then renders the display information in accordance with instructions received by the associated base station . If the display information is calendar data for an associated conference room an identifier e.g. a MAC address for the low power display device can be used as a unique identifier for the associated conference room. The low power display device is further described below in reference to .

The low power display device is an indoor solar powered low power consumption display unit with wireless radio network connectivity. The low power display device is designed to use small amounts of power allowing it to be powered solely by solar energy collected by a solar panel of the low power display device . The solar panel of the low power display device is capable of collecting any source of light energy including indoor lighting. Although this indoor solar energy or ambient energy typically provides much less energy than normal outdoor solar energy the solar energy collected from normal indoor lighting is sufficient to power the low power display device without the need for a battery or a wired power connection.

In some implementations a hand crank such as the hand crank shown in or other user actuated device can be provided with the low power display device so that a user can add power to the device as needed to view up to date information.

In some implementations power can be supplied by a piezoelectric shock. For example a piezoelectric mat can be placed in front of or near a low power display device so that a user stepping on the mat produces electricity due to a piezoelectric effect. The low power display device includes a power control circuit such as the power control circuit of which selectively connects and disconnects a power storage device e.g. a capacitor from the solar panel and a processing device such as the processing device of which manages power consumption in the low power display device and communicates with the associated base station through the transceiver. Both the power control circuit and the processing device e.g. a microcontroller are powered by the power storage device and are described in more detail below.

The power storage device stores energy from the solar panel . In some implementations the power storage device e.g. an ultracapacitor is selected to provide sufficient charge storage capacity to eliminate the need for including a battery in the low power display device . The low power display device also includes a transceiver such as the transceiver of which is powered by the power storage device that is local to the low power display device e.g. an on board capacitor and is used for communicating with the associated base station as described above. The antenna for the transceiver is illustrated in .

A display device of the low power display device is connected to the processing device and is powered by the power storage device e.g. a capacitor . In the example of the display device displays a rendered image of calendar data for the associated Conference Room A. The displayed calendar data includes the date time and organizer of events scheduled for Conference Room A although other information can be additionally or alternatively displayed.

In some implementations the display device maintains a persistent rendered image of the display information without requiring additional power. For example the display device can be a cholesteric liquid crystal display LCD . Traditional LCDs require power at all times to maintain an image. This amount of required power is generally more power than can be stored in the power storage device of the low power display device . A cholesteric LCD allows the displayed image to stay fixed on the display indefinitely regardless of whether or not power is supplied to the low power display device . This type of persistent display is referred to as a bistable display. In some implementations the display device consumes about a half a joule of power when redrawing the full screen.

In some implementations an additional solar panel can be hidden behind the display device . For example some cholesteric LCDs allow approximately 50 reflectivity which means about 50 of energy is transmitted through the cholesteric LCD to the background. If an additional solar panel is placed behind the display device additional solar energy can be collected for storage locally in the power storage device e.g. in a capacitor .

In some implementations the solar panel of the low power display device is located behind the display device . In these implementations the display device occupies substantially the entire front surface of the low power display device . If the low power display device includes a manual actuator as described below the manual actuator can be located on one side of the low power display device . Locating the solar panel completely behind the display device minimizes the footprint of the low power display device while maximizing the space available for collecting power.

In some implementations the low power display device operates in an ultra low power sleep mode. A cholesteric LCD can maintain the final image state even in sleep mode. In some implementations microcontrollers of the low power display device perform no processing while in sleep mode other than a hardware counter that wakes the low power display device once a sleep period has expired. For example prior to entering the sleep mode software of the microcontroller can indicate a duration of a sleep period that is used by the hardware counter to determine when to wake the device. In some implementations a base station can indicate the duration of a sleep period to a low power display device mapped to that base station .

The processing device can cause the low power display device to enter the sleep mode. In some implementations the low power display device periodically wakes up to transmit a request to the associated base station for an update e.g. for updated display information . In some implementations the duration between periodic wake modes can be determined algorithmically. For example the processing device can condition transmission of a request for display information based on the level of a charge in the power storage device . In some implementations the duration between periodic wake modes is determined by a predictive algorithm.

In the example of the low power display device includes a manual actuator e.g. a hardware button . This manual actuator can generate an actuation signal when actuated e.g. depressed by a user. The actuation signal can cause the processing device to awake the low power display device from the sleep mode and cause the transceiver to wake up. In some implementations wake up can include the display of information and or the transmission of a request for display information. In some implementations the charge stored in the capacitor is used approximately 2 3 seconds every hour to update the image of the display device after updated display information is received.

In some implementations the display device can include an interface that allows a user to select one or more options by for example actuating the manual actuator . For example if the display device is used to display calendar data an interface can allow a user to confirm attendance at an event cancel an event or extend the duration of an event. In some implementations actuations of the actuator are reported to the base station to which the display device is mapped. Processing performed in response to the actuation can be performed by the base station and or the server .

The power supply circuit supplies power to a processing device a display device a transceiver and in some implementations can provide power back to the power control circuit for control functions of that circuit as described below. Power provided to the power control circuit can be used for example by control logic and or one or more processing devices of the power control circuit . The control logic and or one or more processing devices of the power control circuit can for example control the flow of energy from the environmental energy source to protect the low power display device . More specifically the control logic and or one or more processing devices of the power control circuit can regulate the amount of charge collected in the power storage device to protect the power storage device from damage due to the accumulation of too high a charge across a capacitor for example .

In some implementations the power control circuit is configured in a default mode to allow current to flow from the environmental energy source to the power supply circuit when there is no power being supplied to the power control circuit from the power supply circuit . Such a condition would be the case for example at an initial power up of the low power display device . After a transient period following power up of the lower power display device the power supply circuit will begin providing power to the power control circuit which can then begin to monitor and control energy collection from the environmental energy source .

Power from the power supply circuit is supplied to the processing device . The processing device can interface with and receive data from the transceiver for communication with one or more base stations and can process the data for the display device as described above.

The processing circuit can monitor the voltage across the capacitor at an input of the processing circuit through for example a resistor . The processing circuit can control the operation of the switch circuit through the switch control line . A present state of the switch i.e. whether the switch circuit is in an open or closed position is supplied to the processing circuit through the switch feedback line . The processing circuit controls operation of the switch circuit to maintain an input voltage to the power supply circuit that is sufficient for power functioning of the power supply circuit without damaging the capacitor . If the voltage across the capacitor becomes too high e.g. reaches a turn off voltage the processing circuit can direct the switch circuit to open in order to protect the capacitor from damage. If the voltage across the capacitor becomes too low e.g. reaches a turn on voltage the processing circuit can direct the switch circuit to close to charge the capacitor using power from the photovoltaic cell .

The switch circuit of is implemented in the schematic of using a double pole double throw relay including coil element pole and pole . In some implementations the relay is a bistable relay that maintains the last position to which it has been directed even after power has been removed from the coil. The use of a bistable relay reduces the power required to operate the voltage control circuit and thus reduces the overall power consumption of the low power display device . The relay is shown in a closed position that allows current from the photovoltaic cell to power the power supply circuit and to charge the capacitor . In the closed position the pole connects diode through the power switch to the node labeled VCAP which is shown connected to the input of the power supply circuit to the capacitor and to the resistor . When the relay is in an open position the pole disconnects the photovoltaic cell from the VCAP node .

The pole provides relay position feedback to the microcontroller which implements the processing circuit of . When the relay is in a closed position the pole connects a pin of the microcontroller to a node VCC which can for example be connected to a regulated voltage output of the power supply circuit . When the relay is in an open position the pole connects this pin of the microcontroller to ground. The microcontroller a PIC16F506 for example can read a voltage at the pin connected to the pole to determine a position of the relay.

The relay is actuated by the microcontroller . In the example shown one side of the coil is connected to three pins of the microcontroller and the other side of the coil is connected to three other pins of the microcontroller. Three pins are connected to either side of the coil to add the respective amount of current that the microcontroller can flow through each pin to reach the amount of current needed to flow through the coil to actuate the relay. To actuate the relay a logic 0 can be set at the three pins connected to one side of the coil while a logic 1 is set on the three pins on the other side of the coil . Current flows from the pins set to logic 1 to those set to logic 0 through the coil to set a state of the relay closed for example . Flipping the logic state of the pins connected to the coil will reverse the current flow to set the other state of the relay open for example .

The microcontroller monitors the voltage across the capacitor through the resistor and actuates the relay in order to protect the capacitor from damage due to too high of a potential across its terminals. To conserve power the microcontroller can be configured to maintain a state of low power consumption and leave that state periodically to sample the voltage across the capacitor causing current to flow through the coil only when needed to change the position of the relay from its present state as indicated by the feedback provided from pole . For example the microcontroller can sample the voltage across the capacitor four times per second and only acting on that information i.e. actuating the relay if the relay needs to be switched from its current position.

In some implementations a dual coil bistable relay can be used in place of the single coil relay described above.

In some implementations the time interval between voltage samples and any resulting changes made to the state of a switching circuit is set and a turn off voltage is selected so that a power storage device e.g. a capacitor can not be charged by the environmental energy source e.g. solar panel or photovoltaic cell from the turn off voltage to a voltage that will damage it during the time between samples.

In some implementations the time interval between voltage samples and any resulting changes made to the state of a switching circuit is set and the turn on voltage is selected so that the power storage device can not be discharged from the turn on voltage to a minimum input voltage of the power supply circuit during the time between samples. The minimum input voltage of the power supply circuit can be for example a lower limit below which the power supply circuit will not function correctly.

In some implementations the power control circuit is designed to provide a window of hysteresis within which the switch circuit can remain in a given state for a period of time. Leaving the switch circuit in a given state as opposed to rapidly transitioning the switch circuit between states to maintain the voltage across the capacitor conserves power by allowing the processing circuit to remain in a low power state and by avoiding the use of any power required to actuate the switch circuit.

For purposes of example a capacitor used as a power storage device can have a rated voltage of 2.7 volts. In this example the capacitor can be potentially damaged by voltages at some level higher than 2.7 volts e.g. a maximum rated voltage limit of 3 volts . 2.7 volts can be used as the turn off voltage and 2.5 volts can be used as the turn on voltage. For low power display devices using a photovoltaic cell charging times from 2.5 volts to 2.7 volts depend on an amount of ambient light. In full sunlight conditions charging from 2.5 to 2.7 volts can take less than one second. In dim light the charging time can be several minutes. Draining the capacitor from 2.7 volts to 2.5 volts generally takes more time on the order of hours if the low power display device is in a sleep mode and no updates are occurring. Draining the capacitor from 2.7 volts to 2.5 volts can occur on the order of minutes if the display is being updated frequently. The voltage of the capacitor can be sampled for example every 250 milliseconds 4 times per second .

In some implementations one or more solid state devices such as metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors MOSFETs are used to switch the charging of the capacitor on and off and to provide current state feedback to a processing circuit.

If the voltage across the power storage device is allowed to decrease below the rated minimum input voltage of the power supply e.g. a charge pump the output of the power supply can drop as shown by line for example. The sampling period for sampling the voltage across the power storage device and the turn on voltage can be selected so as to avoid a drop in the power supply output from occurring. For a given minimum rated voltage input to a power supply and turn on voltage the maximum time between samples shown as Tmax1 in is the time required for the voltage across the power storage device to be drained from the turn on voltage to the rated minimum input voltage of the power supply.

If the voltage across the power storage device is allowed to increase above the maximum rated voltage of the power storage device the power storage device could be damaged. The sampling period for sampling the voltage across the power storage device and the turn off voltage can be selected so as to avoid damaging the power storage device. For a given maximum rated voltage of a power storage device and turn off voltage the maximum time between samples shown as Tmax2 in is the time required for the voltage across the power storage device to increase from the turn off voltage to the maximum rated voltage of the power storage device.

The voltage level is compared to a turn off voltage . For example the turn off voltage can be 2.7 volts

If the voltage is greater than or equal to the turn off voltage the position of the switch is checked . For example the switch feedback line can be read by the processing circuit to determine the state of the switch circuit . For further example the voltage from the relay pole can be read by the microcontroller to determine the position of the relay.

If the switch is on i.e. set to allow a capacitor to charge then the switch is turned off . If the switch is not on i.e. already off the process ends . The switch control line can be used to change the state of the switch circuit if needed. For further example the relay of can be actuated using current flow between the sets of three microcontroller pins to turn it off. If the relay is already off the relay is not actuated so as to conserve power as compared to an open loop process without relay position feedback wherein the relay is directed to the off position if the capacitor voltage is greater than or equal to the turn off voltage regardless of the current state of the relay .

If the monitored voltage is less than the turn off voltage the monitored voltage is compared to a turn on voltage . For example the turn on voltage can be 2.5 volts.

If the monitored voltage is greater than a turn on voltage the process ends . If the monitored voltage is not greater than the turn on voltage the position of the switch is checked . For example the processing circuit can read the switch feedback line or the microcontroller can read the voltage at the pin connected to the relay pole .

If the switch is not on it is turned on . For example the processing circuit can direct the switch to change states using the switch control line or the microcontroller can actuate the relay having coil .

The process can be performed for example periodically by the processing circuit or the microcontroller . When the process is not being performed the processing circuit or the microcontroller can wait in a low power state to conserve energy.

A low power display device is provided in proximity to the conference room . For example the low power display device can be located outside the conference room e.g. by attaching the low power display device with Velcro to the conference room door or wall.

The low power display device is powered based on local environmental conditions . In some implementations the low power display device is powered by an environmental power source e.g. indoor solar energy or radio frequency energy.

Schedule information for the conference room is retrieved from a remote source . For example the low power display device can transmit a request for calendar data to a base station e.g. a base station or directly to a server running a calendar application.

Display of the schedule information for the conference room is managed on the low power display device . In some implementations the remote source e.g. a base station generates instructions for rendering the schedule information and transmits the instructions to the low power display device.

Embodiments of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a tangible program carrier for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. The computer readable medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a memory device a composition of matter effecting a machine readable propagated signal or a combination of one or more of them.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages or declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described is this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any invention or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features that may be specific to particular embodiments of particular inventions. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. In some implementations the low power display system does not include base stations and the low power display devices are directly connected to one or more servers.

