---

title: Treatment of breast cancer
abstract: The disclosure describes the use of one or more compounds that fall within the scope of one or more of structural formulae I, II, III, IV, V, or VI for treating triple negative breast Compounds useful for treating breast cancer include those compounds of formulae I, II, III, IV, V, or VI that inhibit proliferation of breast cancer cells and/or lead to the death of breast cancer cells, especially triple negative breast cancer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09517229&OS=09517229&RS=09517229
owner: THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO, A BODY CORPORATE
number: 09517229
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120727
---
This application claims the benefit of and incorporates by reference Ser. No. 61 513 361 filed on Jul. 29 2011.

This invention was made with government support under grant number W81XWM 08 1 0311 awarded by Army Medical Research Material and Command. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This disclosure describes the use of one or more compounds that fall within the scope of one or more of structural formulae I II III IV V or VI for treating breast cancer. Compounds useful for treating breast cancer include those compounds of formula I II III IV V or VI that inhibit proliferation of breast cancer cells and or lead to the death of breast cancer cells.

The term alkyl denotes branched or unbranched hydrocarbon chains in some embodiments having about 1 to about 8 carbons such as methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl sec butyl iso butyl tert butyl 2 methylpentyl pentyl hexyl isohexyl heptyl 4 4 dimethyl pentyl octyl 2 2 4 trimethylpentyl and the like. Substituted alkyl includes an alkyl group optionally substituted with one or more functional groups which can be attached to such chains such as hydroxyl bromo fluoro chloro iodo mercapto or thio cyano alkylthio heterocyclyl aryl heteroaryl carboxyl carbalkoyl alkyl alkenyl nitro amino alkoxyl amido and the like to form alkyl groups such as trifluoro methyl 3 hydroxyhexyl 2 carboxypropyl 2 fluoroethyl carboxymethyl cyanobutyl and the like.

Unless otherwise indicated the term cycloalkyl as employed herein alone or as part of another group includes saturated or partially unsaturated containing 1 or more double bonds cyclic hydrocarbon groups containing 1 to 3 rings including monocyclicalkyl bicyclicalkyl and tricyclicalkyl containing a total of 3 to 20 carbons forming the rings in some embodiments 3 to 10 carbons forming the ring and which can be fused to 1 or 2 aromatic rings as described for aryl which include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclodecyl and cyclododecyl cyclohexenyl. Substituted cycloalkyl includes a cycloalkyl group optionally substituted with 1 or more substituents such as halogen alkyl alkoxy hydroxy aryl aryloxy arylalkyl cycloalkyl alkylamido alkanoylamino oxo acyl arylcarbonylamino amino nitro cyano thiol and or alkylthio and or any of the substituents included in the definition of substituted alkyl for example 

Unless otherwise indicated the term alkenyl as used herein by itself or as part of another group refers to straight or branched chain radicals of 2 to 20 carbons in some embodiments 2 to 12 carbons and in some embodiments 2 to 8 carbons in the normal chain which include one or more double bonds in the normal chain such as vinyl 2 propenyl 3 butenyl 2 butenyl 4 pentenyl 3 pentenyl 2 hexenyl 3 hexenyl 2 heptenyl 3 heptenyl 4 heptenyl 3 octenyl 3 nonenyl 4 decenyl 3 undecenyl 4 dodecenyl 4 8 12 tetradecatrienyl and the like. Substituted alkenyl includes an alkenyl group optionally substituted with one or more substituents such as the substituents included above in the definition of substituted alkyl and substituted cycloalkyl. 

Unless otherwise indicated the term alkynyl as used herein by itself or as part of another group refers to straight or branched chain radicals of 2 to 20 carbons in some embodiments 2 to 12 carbons and in some embodiments 2 to 8 carbons in the normal chain which include one or more triple bonds in the normal chain such as 2 propynyl 3 butynyl 2 butynyl 4 pentynyl 3 pentynyl 2 hexynyl 3 hexynyl 2 heptynyl 3 heptynyl 4 heptynyl 3 octynyl 3 nonynyl 4 decynyl 3 undecynyl 4 dodecynyl and the like. Substituted alkynyl includes an alkynyl group optionally substituted with one or more substituents such as the substituents included above in the definition of substituted alkyl and substituted cycloalkyl. 

The terms arylalkyl arylalkenyl and arylalkynyl as used alone or as part of another group refer to alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl groups as described above having an aryl substituent. Representative examples of arylalkyl include but are not limited to benzyl 2 phenylethyl 3 phenylpropyl phenethyl benzhydryl and naphthylmethyl and the like. Substituted arylalkyl includes arylalkyl groups wherein the aryl portion is optionally substituted with one or more substituents such as the substituents included above in the definition of substituted alkyl and substituted cycloalkyl. 

The term halogen or halo as used herein alone or as part of another group refers to chlorine bromine fluorine and iodine.

The terms halogenated alkyl halogenated alkenyl and alkynyl as used herein alone or as part of another group refers to alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl which are substituted by one or more atoms selected from fluorine chlorine bromine fluorine and iodine.

Unless otherwise indicated the term aryl or Ar as employed herein alone or as part of another group refers to monocyclic and polycyclic aromatic groups containing 6 to 10 carbons in the ring portion such as phenyl or naphthyl including 1 naphthyl and 2 naphthyl and can optionally include one to three additional rings fused to a carbocyclic ring or a heterocyclic ring such as aryl cycloalkyl heteroaryl or cycloheteroalkyl rings .

 Substituted aryl includes an aryl group optionally substituted with one or more functional groups such as halo haloalkyl alkyl haloalkyl alkoxy haloalkoxy alkenyl trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy alkynyl cycloalkyl alkyl cycloheteroalkyl cycloheteroalkylalkyl aryl heteroaryl arylalkyl aryloxy aryloxyalkyl arylalkoxy alkoxycarbonyl arylcarbonyl arylalkenyl aminocarbonylaryl arylthio arylsulfinyl arylazo heteroarylalkyl heteroarylalkenyl heteroarylheteroaryl heteroaryloxy hydroxy nitro cyano amino substituted amino wherein the amino includes 1 or 2 substituents which are alkyl aryl or any of the other aryl compounds mentioned in the definitions thiol alkylthio arylthio heteroarylthio arylthioalkyl alkoxyarylthio alkylcarbonyl arylcarbonyl alkylaminocarbonyl arylaminocarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl aminocarbonyl alkylcarbonyloxy arylcarbonyloxy alkylcarbonylamino arylcarbonylamino arylsulfinyl arylsulfinylalkyl arylsulfonylamino or arylsulfonaminocarbonyl and or any of the alkyl substituents set out herein.

Unless otherwise indicated the term heterocyclic or heterocycle as used herein represents an unsubstituted or substituted stable 5 to 10 membered monocyclic ring system which can be saturated or unsaturated and which consists of carbon atoms and from one to four heteroatoms selected from N O or S and wherein the nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms can optionally be oxidized and the nitrogen heteroatom can optionally be quaternized. The heterocyclic ring can be attached at any heteroatom or carbon atom which results in the creation of a stable structure. Examples of such heterocyclic groups include but is not limited to piperidinyl piperazinyl oxopiperazinyl oxopiperidinyl oxopyrrolidinyl oxoazepinyl azepinyl pyrrolyl pyrrolidinyl furanyl thienyl pyrazolyl pyrazolidinyl imidazolyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl pyridyl pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl oxazolyl oxazolidinyl isooxazolyl isoxazolidinyl morpholinyl thiazolyl thiazolidinyl isothiazolyl thiadiazolyl tetrahydropyranyl thiamorpholinyl thiamorpholinyl sulfoxide thiamorpholinyl sulfone and oxadiazolyl. The term heterocyclic aromatic as used here in alone or as part of another group refers to a 5 or 7 membered aromatic ring which includes 1 2 3 or 4 hetero atoms such as nitrogen oxygen or sulfur and such rings fused to an aryl cycloalkyl heteroaryl or heterocycloalkyl ring e.g. benzothiophenyl indolyl and includes possible N oxides. Substituted heteroaryl includes a heteroaryl group optionally substituted with 1 to 4 substituents. such as the substituents included above in the definition of substituted alkyl and substituted cycloalkyl. Examples of heteroaryl groups include the following 

 Alkyl refers to and includes saturated linear branched or cyclic hydrocarbon structures and combinations thereof. Particular alkyl groups are those having 1 to 12 carbon atoms a C Calkyl . More particular alkyl groups are those having 1 to 8 carbon atoms a C Calkyl . When an alkyl group having a specific number of carbons is named all geometric isomers having that number of carbons are intended to be encompassed and described thus for example butyl is meant to include n butyl sec butyl iso butyl tert butyl and cyclobutyl propyl includes n propyl isopropyl and cyclopropyl. This term is exemplified by groups such as methyl t butyl n heptyl octyl cyclohexylmethyl cyclopropyl and the like. Cycloalkyl is a subset of alkyl and can consist of one ring such as cyclohexyl or multiple rings such as adamantyl. A cycloalkyl comprising more than one ring may be fused spiro or bridged or combinations thereof. In some embodiments cycloalkyl has from 3 to 12 annular carbon atoms a C Ccycloalkyl . In some embodiments cycloalkyl has from 3 to 7 annular carbon atoms a C Ccycloalkyl . Examples of cycloalkyl groups include adamantyl decahydronaphthalenyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and the like.

 Alkenyl refers to an unsaturated linear branched or cyclic hydrocarbon group having at least one site of olefinic unsaturation i.e. having at least one moiety of the formula C C and in some embodiments having from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and more in some embodiments 2 to 8 carbon atoms. Examples of alkenyl groups include but are not limited to CH CH CH CHand CH CH cyclohexenyl where the ethyl group of the later example can be attached to the cyclohexenyl moiety at any available position on the ring.

 Alkynyl refers to an unsaturated linear branched or cyclic hydrocarbon group having at least one site of acetylenic unsaturation i.e. having at least one moiety of the formula C C and in some embodiments having from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and more in some embodiments 3 to 8 carbon atoms.

 Substituted alkyl refers to an alkyl group having from 1 to 5 substituents including but not limited to substituents such as alkoxy substituted alkoxy acyl acyloxy carbonylalkoxy acylamino substituted or unsubstituted amino aminoacyl substituted or unsubstituted carbamoyl aminocarbonylamino aminocarbonyloxy aryl substituted aryl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl aryloxy substituted aryloxy cyano halo hydroxyl nitro carboxyl thiol thioalkyl substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl substituted or unsubstituted alkynyl substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl substituted or unsubstituted aralkyl aminosulfonyl sulfonylamino sulfonyl oxo carbonylalkylenealkoxy and the like.

 Substituted alkenyl refers to an alkenyl group having from 1 to 5 substituents including but not limited to substituents such as alkoxy substituted alkoxy acyl acyloxy carbonylalkoxy acylamino substituted or unsubstituted amino aminoacyl substituted or unsubstituted carbamoyl aminocarbonylamino aminocarbonyloxy aryl substituted aryl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl aryloxy substituted aryloxy cyano halo hydroxyl nitro carboxyl thiol thioalkyl substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted alkynyl substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl substituted or unsubstituted aralkyl aminosulfonyl sulfonylamino sulfonyl oxo carbonylalkylenealkoxy and the like.

 Substituted alkynyl refers to an alkynyl group having from 1 to 5 substituents including but not limited to groups such as alkoxy substituted alkoxy acyl acyloxy carbonylalkoxy acylamino substituted or unsubstituted amino aminoacyl substituted or unsubstituted carbamoyl aminocarbonylamino aminocarbonyloxy aryl substituted aryl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl aryloxy substituted aryloxy cyano halo hydroxyl nitro carboxyl thiol thioalkyl substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl substituted or unsubstituted aralkyl aminosulfonyl sulfonylamino sulfonyl oxo carbonylalkylenealkoxy and the like.

 Aryl arene or Ar refers to an unsaturated aromatic carbocyclic group having a single ring e.g. phenyl or multiple condensed rings e.g. naphthyl or anthryl . In some embodiments the aryl group contains from 6 to 14 annular carbon atoms.

 Heteroaryl heteroarene or HetAr refers to an unsaturated aromatic carbocyclic group having from 2 to 10 annular carbon atoms and at least one annular heteroatom including but not limited to heteroatoms such as nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. A heteroaryl group may have a single ring e.g. pyridyl furyl or multiple condensed rings e.g. indolizinyl benzothienyl .

 Substituted aryl or substituted arene refers to an aryl group having from 1 to 5 substituents including but not limited to groups such as alkoxy substituted alkoxy acyl acyloxy carbonylalkoxy acylamino substituted or unsubstituted amino aminoacyl substituted or unsubstituted carbamoyl aminocarbonylamino aminocarbonyloxy heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl aryloxy substituted aryloxy cyano halo hydroxyl nitro carboxyl thiol thioalkyl substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl substituted or unsubstituted alkynyl substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl substituted or unsubstituted aralkyl aminosulfonyl sulfonylamino sulfonyl oxo carbonylalkylenealkoxy and the like.

 Substituted heteroaryl or substituted heteroarene refers to a heteroaryl group having from 1 to 5 substituents including but not limited to groups such as alkoxy substituted alkoxy acyl acyloxy carbonylalkoxy acylamino substituted or unsubstituted amino aminoacyl substituted or unsubstituted carbamoyl aminocarbonylamino aminocarbonyloxy aryl substituted aryl aryloxy substituted aryloxy cyano halo hydroxyl nitro carboxyl thiol thioalkyl substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl substituted or unsubstituted alkynyl substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl substituted or unsubstituted aralkyl aminosulfonyl sulfonylamino sulfonyl oxo carbonylalkylenealkoxy and the like.

 Aralkyl refers to a residue in which an aryl moiety is attached to an alkyl residue and wherein the aralkyl group may be attached to the parent structure at either the aryl or the alkyl residue. In some embodiments an aralkyl is connected to the parent structure via the alkyl moiety.

 Aralkenyl refers to a residue in which an aryl moiety is attached to an alkenyl residue and wherein the aralkenyl group may be attached to the parent structure at either the aryl or the alkenyl residue. In some embodiments an aralkenyl is connected to the parent structure via the alkenyl moiety.

 Aralkynyl refers to a residue in which an aryl moiety is attached to an alkynyl residue and wherein the aralkynyl group may be attached to the parent structure at either the aryl or the alkynyl residue. In some embodiments an aralkynyl is connected to the parent structure via the alkynyl moiety.

 Heteroaralkyl refers to a residue in which a heteroaryl moiety is attached to an alkyl residue and wherein the heroaralkyl group may be attached to the parent structure at either the heteroaryl or the alkyl residue. In some embodiments a heteroaralkyl is connected to the parent structure via the alkyl moiety.

 Heterocycle heterocyclic or heterocyclyl refers to a saturated or an unsaturated non aromatic group having a single ring or multiple condensed rings and having from 1 to 10 annular carbon atoms and from 1 to 4 annular heteroatoms such as nitrogen sulfur or oxygen. A heterocycle comprising more than one ring may be fused spiro or bridged or any combination thereof.

 Substituted heterocyclic or substituted heterocyclyl refers to a heterocycle group which is substituted with from 1 to 3 substituents including but not limited to substituents such as alkoxy substituted alkoxy acyl acyloxy carbonylalkoxy acylamino substituted or unsubstituted amino aminoacyl substituted or unsubstituted carbamoyl aminocarbonylamino aminocarbonyloxy aryl substituted aryl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl aryloxy substituted aryloxy cyano halo hydroxyl nitro carboxyl thiol thioalkyl substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl substituted or unsubstituted alkynyl substituted or unsubstituted aralkyl aminosulfonyl sulfonylamino sulfonyl oxo carbonylalkylenealkoxy and the like. In some embodiments a substituted heterocycle is a heterocycle substituted with an additional ring wherein the additional ring may be aromatic or non aromatic.

 Halo or halogen refers to elements of the Group 17 series having atomic number 9 to 85. In some embodiments halo groups include the radicals of fluorine chlorine bromine and iodine. Where a residue is substituted with more than one halogen it may be referred to by using a prefix corresponding to the number of halogen moieties attached e.g. dihaloaryl dihaloalkyl trihaloaryl etc. refer to aryl and alkyl substituted with two di or three tri halo groups which may be but are not necessarily the same halogen thus 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl is within the scope of dihaloaryl. Similarly a haloalkenyl or haloalkynyl indicates an alkenyl or alkynyl moiety respectively in which at least one H is replaced with a halo group. An alkyl group in which each H is replaced with a halo group is referred to as a perhaloalkyl. In some embodiments a perhaloalkyl group is trifluoromethyl CF .

A substituted group similarly refers to a group which is substituted with from 1 to 5 substituents including but not limited to substituents such as alkoxy substituted alkoxy acyl acyloxy carbonylalkoxy acylamino substituted or unsubstituted amino aminoacyl substituted or unsubstituted carbamoyl aminocarbonylamino aminocarbonyloxy aryl substituted aryl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl aryloxy substituted aryloxy cyano halo hydroxyl nitro carboxyl thiol thioalkyl substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl substituted or unsubstituted alkynyl substituted or unsubstituted aralkyl aminosulfonyl sulfonylamino sulfonyl oxo carbonylalkylenealkoxy and the like.

In some embodiments the compound of formula I II III IV V or VI is a diarylhydantoin compound. Useful diarylhydantoin compounds and their syntheses are disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 7 709 517.

In some embodiments R1 and R2 are independently methyl or together with the carbon to which they are linked a cycloalkyl group of 4 to 5 carbon atoms and R3 is selected from the group consisting of carbamoyl alkylcarbamoyl carbamoylalkyl and alkylcarbamoylalkyl and R4 is H or F or R4 is 3 fluoro.

In some embodiments R1 and R2 are independently methyl or together with the carbon to which they are linked a cycloalkyl group of 4 to 5 carbon atoms R3 is selected from the group consisting of cyano hydroxy methylcarbamoyl methylcarbamoyl substituted alkyl methylsulfonecarbamoyl substituted alkyl methylaminomethyl dimethylaminomethyl methylsulfonyloxymethyl methoxycarbonyl acetamido methanesulfonamido carbamoyl substituted alkyl carboxymethyl methoxycarbonylmethyl methanesulfonyl 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethylphenylcarbamoyl substituted alkyl carboxy substituted alkyl 4 1 1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl 1 piperazinyl 4 methanesulfonyl 1 piperazinyl piperazinyl hydroxyethylcarbamoyl substituted alkyl hydroxyethoxycarbonyl substituted alkyl and 3 cyano 4 trifluoromethylphenylcarbamoyl and R4 is F.

In some embodiments the compound is a compound disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 709 517. In some embodiments the compound is a compound listed in Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 and or Tier 4 of U.S. Pat. No. 7 709 517 reproduced below 

Other useful diarylhydantoin compounds and their syntheses are disclosed for example in U.S. 2009 0111864.

In some embodiments Rand Rcan be independently methyl or together with the carbon to which they are linked cyclobutyl or cyclopentyl. In some embodiments Rand Rcan be both hydrogen or both methyl. In some embodiments Rcan be NH CH or N CH . In some embodiments when R Rand Rare each hydrogen and when Rand Rtogether with the carbon to which they are linked are cyclobutyl then Rcan be other than cyano and

In some embodiments the compound is a hydantoin compound. Useful hydantoin compounds and their syntheses are disclosed for example in US 2011 0003839.

In Formula II Het represents a heterocyclic unit of 5 or 6 atoms. A and B are independently selected from oxygen sulfur and N R with Rbeing selected from hydrogen aryl substituted aryl alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl substituted alkenyl alkynyl substituted alkynyl halogenated alkyl halogenated alkenyl halogenated alkynyl arylalkyl arylalkenyl arylalkynyl heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic substituted heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic cycloalkyl substituted cycloalkyl SOR NRR NR CO OR NH CO NRR NR CO R O CO R O CO OR O CS R NR CS R NH CS NRR or NR CS OR. Rand Rare independently selected from hydrogen alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl or substituted alkenyl alkynyl or substituted alkynyl aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl arylalkenyl arylalkynyl heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic or substituted heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic. Ris selected from hydrogen aryl substituted aryl alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl substituted alkenyl alkynyl substituted alkynyl halogenated alkyl halogenated alkenyl halogenated alkynyl arylalkyl arylalkenyl arylalkynyl heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic substituted heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic cycloalkyl substituted cycloalkyl SOR NRR NR CO OR NH CO NRR NR CO R O CO R O CO OR O CS R NR CS R NH CS NRR or NR CS OR. Rand Rare independently selected from hydrogen aryl alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl substituted alkenyl alkynyl substituted alkynyl halogenated alkyl halogenated alkenyl halogenated alkynyl arylalkyl arylalkenyl arylalkynyl heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic substituted heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic cycloalkyl or substituted cycloalkyl or together with the carbon to which they are linked form a cycle which can be cycloalkyl substituted cycloalkyl heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic substituted heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic.

Rand Rcan be connected to form a cycle which can be heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic substituted heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic. Rand Rcan be connected to form a cycle which can be heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic substituted heterocyclic aromatic cycloalkyl or substituted cycloalkyl.

R R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl substituted alkenyl alkynyl substituted alkynyl aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl arylalkenyl arylalkynyl halogenated alkyl halogenated alkenyl halogenated alkynyl halogen CN NO OR SR NRR NH CO OR NH CO NRR NR CO R O CO R O CO OR O CS R NR CS R NH CS NRR NR CS OR. In some embodiments Ris CN or NO. Ris trifluoromethyl halogenated alkyl halogenated alkenyl halogenated alkynyl and halogen. Rand Rare hydrogen alkyl or halogen. R R R and Rcan be independently connected to form a cycle which can be aromatic substituted aromatic heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic substituted heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic cycloalkyl substituted cycloalkyl. X is selected from sulfur S oxygen O NRwherein N is nitrogen and is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl substituted alkenyl alkynyl substituted alkynyl aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl arylalkenyl arylalkynyl halogenated alkyl halogenated alkenyl halogenated alkynyl halogen CO R CO OR CS R CS OR.

Ris selected from hydrogen aryl substituted aryl alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl substituted alkenyl alkynyl substituted alkynyl halogenated alkyl halogenated alkenyl halogenated alkynyl arylalkyl arylalkenyl arylalkynyl heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic substituted heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic cycloalkyl substituted cycloalkyl SOR NRR NR CO OR NH CO NRR NR CO R O CO R O CO OR O CS R NR CS R NH CS NRR NR CS OR. In some embodiments Ris aryl substituted aryl alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl substituted alkenyl.

Rand Rare independently selected from hydrogen aryl alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl substituted alkenyl alkynyl substituted alkynyl halogenated alkyl halogenated alkenyl halogenated alkynyl arylalkyl arylalkenyl arylalkynyl heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic substituted heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic cycloalkyl substituted cycloalkyl. Rand Rcan be connected to form a cycle which can be heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic substituted heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic cycloalkyl substituted cycloalkyl. Rand Rcan be connected to form a cycle which can be heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic substituted heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic.

A and B are independently selected from oxygen O sulfur S and N R. Ris selected from hydrogen aryl substituted aryl alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl substituted alkenyl alkynyl substituted alkynyl halogenated alkyl halogenated alkenyl halogenated alkynyl arylalkyl arylalkenyl arylalkynyl heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic substituted heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic cycloalkyl substituted cycloalkyl SOR NRR NR CO OR NH CO NRR NR CO R O CO R O CO OR O CS R NR CS R NH CS NRR NR CS OR.

Rand R are independently selected from hydrogen alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl or substituted alkenyl alkynyl or substituted alkynyl aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl arylalkenyl arylalkynyl heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic substituted heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic. Rand Rcan be connected to form a cycle which can be heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic substituted heterocyclic aromatic cycloalkyl substituted cycloalkyl.

In some embodiments Ris alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl or substituted alkenyl. In some embodiments Ris selected from the group consisting of aryl and substituted aryl. In some embodiments Ris aryl substituted by at least one fluorine atom. In some embodiments Ris a 5 to 8 membered heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic ring. In some embodiments Rand Rare independently methyl ethyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl fluoromethyl chloromethyl or bromomethyl.

In some embodiments Het comprises a heterocyclic unit of 6 atoms in which 1 or 2 heteroatoms independently are selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. In some embodiments Het comprises a 0 or 1 double bonded substituent on the heterocyclic unit selected from the group consisting of oxygen and sulfur. In some embodiments Het comprises from 3 to 4 single bonded substituents on the heterocyclic unit selected from hydrogen alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl substituted alkenyl alkynyl substituted alkynyl aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl arylalkenyl arylalkynyl halogenated alkyl halogenated alkenyl halogenated alkynyl halogen CN NO OR SR NRR NH CO OR NH CO NRR NR CO R O CO R O CO OR O CS R NR CS R NH CS NRR and NR CS OR. In some embodiments a single bonded substituent can be connected to another single bonded substituent to form a cycle which is aromatic substituted aromatic heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic substituted heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic cycloalkyl or substituted cycloalkyl.

In some embodiments Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl and or halogen. In some embodiments Ris selected from the group consisting of CN and NO wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of trifluoromethyl halogenated alkyl halogenated alkenyl halogenated alkynyl and halogen in some of these embodiments Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl and or halogen.

In some embodiments Ris CN or NO. In some embodiments Ris trifluoromethyl halogenated alkyl halogenated alkenyl halogenated alkynyl or halogen. In some embodiments R and Rare independently hydrogen alkyl and or halogen.

In some embodiments Ris CN or NOand Ris trifluoromethyl halogenated alkyl halogenated alkenyl halogenated alkynyl or halogen.

In some embodiments Ris CN or NO Ris trifluoromethyl halogenated alkyl halogenated alkenyl halogenated alkynyl or halogen and R and Rare independently hydrogen alkyl and or halogen.

In some embodiments Ris trifluoromethyl halogenated alkyl halogenated alkenyl halogenated alkynyl or halogen and R and Rare independently hydrogen alkyl and or halogen.

In some embodiments Het comprises a heterocyclic unit of 5 atoms wherein the heterocyclic unit comprises 1 or 2 heteroatoms independently selected from the group consisting of sulfur oxygen nitrogen and NR8 wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl substituted alkenyl alkynyl substituted alkynyl aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl arylalkenyl arylalkynyl halogenated alkyl halogenated alkenyl halogenated alkynyl halogen CO R CO OR CS R CS OR wherein Het comprises from 2 to 3 single bonded substituents on the heterocyclic unit selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl substituted alkenyl alkynyl substituted alkynyl aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl arylalkenyl arylalkynyl halogenated alkyl halogenated alkenyl halogenated alkynyl halogen CN NO OR SR NRR NH CO OR NH CO NRR NR CO R O CO R O CO OR O CS R NR CS R NH CS NRR NR CS OR wherein a single bonded substituent can be connected to another single bonded substituent to form a cycle which is aromatic substituted aromatic heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic substituted heterocyclic aromatic or non aromatic cycloalkyl or substituted cycloalkyl.

In some embodiments Ris selected from the group consisting of CN and NO wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of trifluoromethyl halogenated alkyl halogenated alkenyl halogenated alkynyl and halogen and wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl and halogen.

In some embodiments the compound is a substituted di arylhydantoin or substituted di arylthiohydantoin compound. Useful compounds and their syntheses are disclosed for example in WO 2010 118354.

In some embodiments Wis CN. In some embodiments Wis alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl substituted alkenyl alkynyl or substituted alkynyl. In some embodiments Wis substituted alkyl substituted alkenyl or substituted alkynyl where the alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl is substituted with a halogen. Win some embodiments is a haloalkyl haloalkenyl haloalkynyl or perhaloalkyl. Win some embodiments is a substituted alkyl. In some embodiments Wis substituted alkyl where the alkyl is substituted with a halogen. In some embodiments Wis a haloalkyl or perhaloalkyl. In some embodiments Wis a perhaloalkyl. The perhaloalkyl in some embodiments is a C Cperhaloalkyl such as trihalomethyl. In some embodiments Wis trifluoromethyl. In some embodiments Wis CN and Wis perhaloalkyl. In some embodiments Wis CN and Wis CF.

In some embodiments Yand Yare both a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Yand Yare the same C Calkyl such as when both Yand Yare methyl ethyl propyl or butyl. In some embodiments Yand Yare both methyl or are taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a C Ccycloalkyl. In some embodiments Yand Yare both methyl. In some embodiments at least one of Yand Yis alkyl where the alkyl is a cycloalkyl. In some embodiments at least one of Yand Yis substituted alkyl where the substituted alkyl is a substituted cycloalkyl. In some embodiments one or both of Yand Yare substituted alkyl substituted alkenyl or substituted alkynyl where the alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl is substituted with a halogen. In some embodiments at least one of Yand Yis a haloalkyl haloalkenyl or haloalkynyl. In some embodiments both Yand Yare a haloalkyl haloalkenyl or haloalkynyl. In some embodiments Yand Yare taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a C Ccycloalkyl. In some embodiments Yand Yare taken together to form a cyclobutyl moiety. In some embodiments Yand Yare both methyl Wis CN. In some embodiments Yand Yare both methyl and Wis a perhaloalkyl such as CF. In some embodiments Yand Yare both methyl Wis CN and Wis a perhaloalkyl such as CF.

In some embodiments Zand Zare independently S or O. In some embodiments Zis S and Zis O. In some embodiments Zand Zare independently S or O and Yand Yare both a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Zis S Zis O and Yand Yare the same C Calkyl. In some embodiments Zand Zare independently S or O and Yand Yare both methyl or are taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a C Ccycloalkyl. In some embodiments Zis S Zis O and the compound is further defined by one or more of the following structural features i Yand Yare both a C Calkyl ii Wis CN iii . Wis perhaloalkyl. In some embodiments Zis S Zis O Yand Yare the same C Calkyl Wis CN and Wis CF.

In some embodiments T is C. In some embodiments T is N. In some embodiments a compound of formula III may be further defined by T being C. In some embodiments a compound of formula III may be further defined by T being N. For example in some embodiments the compound may be further defined by T being C or by T being N.

In some embodiments Ris C Calkyl NRRwhere Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H or a C Calkyl or Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a heterocyclic ring. In some embodiments the C Calkyl moiety of C Calkyl NRRis a CH moiety where n is an integer from 1 to 8. In some embodiments n is less than 4. In some embodiments n is 1. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H. For example Rin some embodiments is ethyl propyl butyl or pentyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Ris a C Ccycloalkyl and Ris a C Calkyl e.g. methyl . In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare the same C Calkyl e.g. when both Rand Rare ethyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a heterocyclic ring. In some embodiments when Rand Rare taken together to form a heterocyclic ring the ring is a C Cheterocyclic ring. The heterocyclic ring formed by R Rand the N to which they are attached in some embodiments contains only C and N as annular atoms. In some embodiments the heterocycle contains as annular atoms only C and the N provided when Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached. In some embodiments Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl ring.

Where applicable for any detailed herein wherein Ris C Calkyl NRR the C Calkyl moiety of C Calkyl NRRis a CH moiety where n is 1. Thus Rin some embodiments is CHNRRwhere Rand Rmay be as defined herein. In some embodiments Ris 

In some embodiments Ris O C Calkyl NRRwhere Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H or a C Calkyl or Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a heterocyclic ring. In some embodiments the C Calkyl moiety of O C Calkyl NRRis a CH moiety where n is an integer from 1 to 8. In some embodiments n is less than 4. In some embodiments n is 2. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H. For example Rin some embodiments is methyl ethyl propyl butyl or pentyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H.

In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In some of these embodiments Rand Rare the same C Calkyl e.g. when both Rand Rare methyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a heterocyclic ring. In some embodiments when Rand Rare taken together to form a heterocyclic ring the ring is a C Cheterocyclic ring. The heterocyclic ring formed by R Rand the N to which they are attached in some embodiments contains only C and N as annular atoms. In some embodiments the heterocycle contains as annular atoms only C and the N provided when Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached. In some embodiments Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl ring. Where applicable for any detailed herein wherein Ris O C Calkyl NRR the C Calkyl moiety of O C Calkyl NRRis a CH moiety where n is 2. Thus Rin some embodiments is OCHCHNRRwhere Rand Rmay be as defined herein. In some embodiments Ris 

In some embodiments Ris C O NRRwhere Rand Rare as defined in provisions i or ii or iii i Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H or a C Calkyl ii Ris a C Calkyl and Ris C Calkyl or iii Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a heterocyclic ring. In some embodiments Ris C O NRRand Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H or a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Ris C O NRRand Ris a C Calkyl and Ris C Calkyl. In some embodiments Ris C O NRRand Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a heterocyclic ring. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H. For example Rin some embodiments is ethyl propyl butyl pentyl or hexyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Ccycloalkyl e.g. cyclopentyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Cbranched alkyl e.g. tert butyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris a C Calkyl e.g. where Ris ethyl and Ris methyl . In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl e.g. where both Rand Rare methyl . In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare the same C Calkyl e.g. when both Rand Rare ethyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In some embodiments at least one of Rand Ris a C Ccycloalkyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a heterocyclic ring. In some embodiments when Rand Rare taken together to form a heterocyclic ring the ring is a C Cheterocyclic ring. The heterocyclic ring formed by R Rand the N to which they are attached in some embodiments contains only C and N as annular atoms. In some embodiments the heterocycle contains as annular atoms only C and the N provided when Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached. In some embodiments Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl ring.

In some embodiments Ris halo e.g. F . In some embodiments Ris H. In some embodiments Ris halo when Ris C Calkyl NRRor C O NRR. In some embodiments Ris H when Ris O C Calkyl NRR.

Examples of compounds according to Formula III are depicted in Table 1. The compounds depicted may be present as salts even if salts are not depicted and it is understood that the this disclosure embraces all salts and solvates of the compounds depicted here as well as the non salt and non solvate form of the compound as is well understood by the skilled artisan. It is thus understood that pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds are intended.

In some embodiments the compound is a substituted phenylcarbamoyl alkylamino arene or an N N bis arylurea compound. Other useful compounds and their syntheses are disclosed in WO 2011 044327. In some embodiments a compound is a compound of Formula IV 

In some embodiments the compound is of the formula IV where Wis CN. In some embodiments Wis alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl substituted alkenyl alkynyl or substituted alkynyl. In some embodiments Wis substituted alkyl substituted alkenyl or substituted alkynyl where the alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl is substituted with one or more halogens. Win some embodiments is a haloalkyl haloalkenyl haloalkynyl or perhaloalkyl. Win some embodiments is a substituted alkyl. In some embodiments Wis substituted alkyl where the alkyl is substituted with one or more halogens. In some embodiments Wis a haloalkyl or perhaloalkyl. In some embodiments Wis a perhaloalkyl. The perhaloalkyl in some embodiments is a C Cperhaloalkyl such as trihalomethyl. In some embodiments Wis trifluoromethyl. In a particular Wis CN and Wis perhaloalkyl. In another particular Wis CN and Wis CF.

In some embodiments Yand Yare both a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Yand Yare the same C Calkyl such as when both Yand Yare methyl ethyl propyl or butyl. In some embodiments Yand Yare both methyl or are taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a C Ccycloalkyl. In some embodiments Yand Yare both methyl. In some embodiments one of Yor Yis hydrogen and the other of Yor Yis C Calkyl. In some embodiments one of Yor Yis hydrogen and the other of Yor Yis methyl ethyl propyl or butyl. In some embodiments at least one of Yand Yis alkyl where the alkyl is a cycloalkyl. In some embodiments at least one of Yand Yis substituted alkyl where the substituted alkyl is a substituted cycloalkyl. In some embodiments one or both of Yand Yare substituted alkyl substituted alkenyl or substituted alkynyl where the alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl is substituted with one or more halogens. In some embodiments at least one of Yand Yis a haloalkyl haloalkenyl or haloalkynyl. In some embodiments both Yand Yare a haloalkyl haloalkenyl or haloalkynyl. In some embodiments Yand Yare taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a C Ccycloalkyl. In some embodiments Yand Yare taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a cyclopropyl cyclobutyl or cyclopentyl moiety. In some embodiments Yand Yare both methyl and Wis CN. In some embodiments Yand Yare both methyl and Wis a perhaloalkyl such as CF. In some embodiments Yand Yare both methyl Wis CN and Wis a perhaloalkyl such as CF. In some embodiments Yis isopropyl Yis H Wis CN and Wis a perhaloalkyl such as CF. In a particular Yand Yare taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a cyclopropyl Wis CN. In another particular of formula IV Yand Yare taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a cyclopropyl and Wis a perhaloalkyl such as CF. In some embodiments Yand Yare taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a cyclopropyl Wis CN and Wis a perhaloalkyl such as CF.

In some embodiments Z is substituted N e. g. NR S or O. In some embodiments Z is O. In a particular Z is S or O and Yand Yare both a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Z is O and Yand Yare the same C Calkyl. In some embodiments Z is S or O and Yand Yare both methyl or are taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a C Ccycloalkyl. In some embodiments Z is O and the compound is further defined by one or more of the following structural features i Yand Yare both a C Calkyl ii Wis CN iii Wis perhaloalkyl. In some embodiments Z is O Yand Yare the same C Calkyl Wis CN and Wis CF. In one particular such embodiment Z is O Yand Yare each methyl Wis CN and Wis CF. In some embodiments the compounds of formula IV are provided where Z is O and the compound is further defined by one or more of the following structural features i Yand Yare taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a C Ccycloalkyl ii Wis CN iii Wis perhaloalkyl. In some embodiments Z is O Yand Yare taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a C Ccycloalkyl Wis CN and Wis CF. In one particular embodiment Z is O Yand Yare taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a cyclopropyl Wis CN and Wis CF.

In some embodiments T is C. In some embodiments T is N. It is understood that where applicable a compound may be further defined by T being C. It is understood that where applicable a compound may be further defined by T being N. For example the embodiments described herein may in some cases be further defined by T being C or by T being N.

Compounds of formula IV are provided where Ris C Calkyl NRRwhere Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H or a C Calkyl or Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a heterocyclic ring. In some embodiments the C Calkyl moiety of C Calkyl NRRis a CH moiety where n is an integer from 1 to 8. In some embodiments n is less than 4. In some embodiments n is 1. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H. For example Rin some embodiments is methyl ethyl propyl butyl or pentyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H. Compounds of formula IV are also provided where Ris a C Calkyl and Ris a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Ris a C Ccycloalkyl and Ris a C Calkyl e.g. methyl . In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare the same C Calkyl e.g. when both Rand Rare ethyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In still some embodiments Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a heterocyclic ring. In some embodiments when Rand Rare taken together to form a heterocyclic ring the ring is a 4 to 7 membered heterocyclic ring. The heterocyclic ring formed by R Rand the N to which they are attached in some embodiments contains only C and N as annular atoms. In some embodiments the heterocycle contains as annular atoms only C and the N provided when Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached. In a particular Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl ring. Where applicable for any detailed herein wherein Ris C Calkyl NRR in some embodiments the C Calkyl moiety of C Calkyl NRRis a CH moiety where n is 1. Thus Rin some embodiments is CHNRRwhere Rand Rmay be as defined herein. In some embodiments Ris 

In some of these embodiments the compound is further defined by any one or more of the following structural features i Wis CN ii Wis perhaloalkyl e.g. CF iii Z is O iv Yand Yare both methyl and v T is C. In some embodiments the compound is further defined by any one or more of the following structural features i Wis CN ii Wis perhaloalkyl e.g. CF iii Z is O iv Yand Yare both methyl v Ris halogen e.g. F and vi T is C.

Compounds of formula IV are provided where Ris O C Calkyl NRRwhere Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H or a C Calkyl or Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a heterocyclic ring. In some embodiments the C Calkyl moiety of O C Calkyl NRRis a CH moiety where n is an integer from 1 to 8. In some embodiments n is less than 4. In some embodiments n is 2. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H. For example Rin some embodiments is methyl ethyl propyl butyl or pentyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H. Compounds of formula IV are also provided where Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare the same C Calkyl e.g. when both Rand Rare methyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In still some embodiments Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a heterocyclic ring. In some embodiments when Rand Rare taken together to form a heterocyclic ring the ring is a 4 to 7 membered heterocyclic ring. The heterocyclic ring formed by R Rand the N to which they are attached in some embodiments contains only C and N as annular atoms. In some embodiments the heterocycle contains as annular atoms only C and the N provided when Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached. In a particular Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl ring. Where applicable for any detailed herein wherein Ris O C Calkyl NRR in some embodiments the C Calkyl moiety of O C Calkyl NRRis a CH moiety where n is 2. Thus Rin some embodiments is OCHCHNRRwhere Rand Rmay be as defined herein.

In some of these embodiments the compound is further defined by any one or more of the following structural features i Wis CN ii Wis perhaloalkyl e.g. CF iii Z is O iv Yand Yare both methyl v Ris H and vi T is C.

In some embodiments Ris C O NRRwhere Rand Rare as defined in provisions i or ii or iii or iv i Rand Rare independently H or a C Calkyl ii Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H or a C Calkyl iii Ris a C Calkyl and Ris C Calkyl or iv Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a heterocyclic ring. In some embodiments Ris C O NRRand Rand Rare independently H or a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Ris C O NRRand Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H or a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Ris C O NRRand Ris a C Calkyl and Ris C Calkyl. In some embodiments Ris C O NRRand Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a heterocyclic ring. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H. For example Rin some embodiments is methyl ethyl propyl butyl pentyl or hexyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Ccycloalkyl e.g. cyclopentyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Cbranched alkyl e.g. tert butyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H e.g. where Ris methyl and Ris H . In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H e.g. where Ris propyl or butyl and Ris H . In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris a C Calkyl e.g. where Ris ethyl and Ris methyl . In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl e.g. where both Rand Rare methyl . In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare the same C Calkyl e.g. when both Rand Rare ethyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In some embodiments at least one of Rand Ris a C Ccycloalkyl. In still some embodiments Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a heterocyclic ring. In some embodiments when Rand Rare taken together to form a heterocyclic ring the ring is a 4 to 7 membered heterocyclic ring. The heterocyclic ring formed by R Rand the N to which they are attached in some embodiments contains only C and N as annular atoms. In some embodiments the heterocycle contains as annular atoms only C and the N provided when Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached. In a particular Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl ring. In some embodiments Ris 

In some embodiments the compound is further defined by any one or more of the following structural features i Wis CN ii Wis perhaloalkyl e.g. CF iii Z is O iv Yand Yare both methyl and vi T is C. In some embodiments Ris as defined above and the compound is further defined by any one or more of the following structural features i Wis CN ii Wis perhaloalkyl e.g. CF iii Z is O iv Yand Yare taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a cyclopropyl and vi T is C.

In any embodiment detailed herein Rin some embodiments is halo e.g. F . In some embodiments Ris H. In some embodiments Ris halo when Ris C Calkyl NRRor C O NRR. In some embodiments Ris H when Ris O C Calkyl NRR.

Examples of compounds according to Formula IV are depicted in Table 2. The compounds depicted may be present as salts even if salts are not depicted and it is understood that this disclosure embraces all salts and solvates of the compounds depicted here as well as the non salt and non solvate form of the compound as is well understood by the skilled artisan. It is thus understood that pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds are intended.

In some embodiments the compound is of the formula V where T is nitrogen when Rand Rare both hydrogen.

In some embodiments the compound is of the formula V where Wis CN. In some embodiments Wis hydrogen alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl substituted alkenyl alkynyl or substituted alkynyl. In some embodiments Wis substituted alkyl substituted alkenyl or substituted alkynyl where the alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl is substituted with one or more halogens. Win some embodiments is a haloalkyl haloalkenyl haloalkynyl or perhaloalkyl. Win some embodiments is a substituted alkyl. In some embodiments Wis substituted alkyl where the alkyl is substituted with one or more halogens. In some embodiments Wis a haloalkyl or perhaloalkyl. In some embodiments Wis a perhaloalkyl. The perhaloalkyl in some embodiments is a C Cperhaloalkyl such as trihalomethyl. In some embodiments Wis trifluoromethyl. In a particular Wis CN and Wis perhaloalkyl. In another particular Wis CN and Wis CF. In some embodiments Wis hydrogen. In a particular Wis CN and Wis hydrogen.

In some embodiments Yand Yare both a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Y and Yare the same C Calkyl such as when both Yand Yare methyl ethyl propyl or butyl. In some embodiments Yand Yare both methyl or are taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a C Ccycloalkyl. In some embodiments the compounds of formula V are provided where Yand Yare both methyl. In some embodiments the compounds of formula V are provided where one of Yor Yis hydrogen and the other of Yor Yis C Calkyl. In some embodiments one of Yor Yis hydrogen and the other of Yor Yis methyl ethyl propyl or butyl. In some embodiments the compounds of formula V are provided where at least one of Yand Yis alkyl where the alkyl is a cycloalkyl. In some embodiments the compounds of formula V are provided where at least one of Yand Yis substituted alkyl where the substituted alkyl is a substituted cycloalkyl. In some embodiments the compounds of formula V are provided where one or both of Yand Yare substituted alkyl substituted alkenyl or substituted alkynyl where the alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl is substituted with one or more halogens. In some embodiments at least one of Yand Yis a haloalkyl haloalkenyl or haloalkynyl. In another such embodiment both Yand Yare a haloalkyl haloalkenyl or haloalkynyl. In some embodiments the compounds of formula V are provided where Yand Yare taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a C Ccycloalkyl. In some embodiments Yand Yare taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a cyclopropyl cyclobutyl or cyclopentyl moiety. In a particular Yand Yare both methyl Wis CN. In another particular Yand Yare both methyl and Wis a perhaloalkyl such as CF. In some embodiments Yand Yare both methyl Wis CN and V is a perhaloalkyl such as CF. In some embodiments Yis isopropyl Yis H Wis CN and Wis a perhaloalkyl such as CF. In a particular Yand Yare taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a cyclopropyl Wis CN. In another particular of formula V Yand Yare taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a cyclopropyl and Wis a perhaloalkyl such as CF. In some embodiments Yand Yare taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a cyclopropyl Wis CN and Wis a perhaloalkyl such as CF.

In a Yis carboxyl carbonyl or derivative thereof such as carboxyl formyl alkyl carbonyl substituted alkyl carbonyl alkenyl carbonyl substituted alkenyl carbonyl alkynyl carbonyl substituted alkynyl carbonyl aryl carbonyl substituted aryl carbonyl heteroaryl carbonyl substituted heteroaryl carbonyl arylalkyl carbonyl arylalkenyl carbonyl arylalkynyl carbonyl heteroaralkyl carbonyl heterocyclyl carbonyl substituted heterocyclyl carbonyl cyano carbamyl N alkyl carbamyl N N dialkyl carbamyl N substituted alkyl carbamyl N N bis substituted alkyl carbamyl alkoxy carbonyl substituted alkoxy carbonyl halocarbonyl hydroxymethyl alkylhydroxymethyl or substituted alkoxymethyl. In a Yis thiocarboxyl thioformyl alkyl thiocarbonyl substituted alkyl thiocarbonyl alkenyl thiocarbonyl substituted alkenyl thiocarbonyl alkynyl thiocarbonyl substituted alkynyl thiocarbonyl aryl thiocarbonyl substituted aryl thiocarbonyl heteroaryl thiocarbonyl substituted heteroaryl thiocarbonyl arylalkyl thiocarbonyl arylalkenyl thiocarbonyl arylalkynyl thiocarbonyl heteroaralkyl thiocarbonyl heterocyclyl thiocarbonyl substituted heterocyclyl thiocarbonyl thiocarbamyl N alkyl thiocarbamyl N N dialkyl thiocarbamyl N substituted alkyl thiocarbamyl N N bis substituted alkyl thiocarbamyl alkoxy thiocarbonyl substituted alkoxy thiocarbonyl halothiocarbonyl mercaptomethyl substituted alkylthiomethyl.

In a particular Yis aminocarbonyl N alkyl aminocarbonyl N N dialkyl aminocarbonyl. In a particular Yis aminocarbonyl.

In another particular Yis formyl alkyl carbonyl or alkoxy carbonyl. In a particular Yis alkoxycarbonyl.

In a Yis hydrogen alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl substituted alkenyl alkynyl substituted alkynyl aryl substituted aryl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl arylalkyl arylalkenyl arylalkynyl heteroaralkyl heterocyclyl substituted heterocyclyl 

In some embodiments the compounds of formula V are provided where Z is substituted N e.g. NR S or O. In some embodiments Z is O. In some embodiments Z is S. In a particular Z is S or O and Yand Yare both a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Z is S or O and Yand Yare the same C Calkyl. In some embodiments Z is S or O and Yand Yare both methyl or are taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a C Ccycloalkyl.

In some embodiments the compounds of formula V are provided where Z is S and the compound is further defined by one or more of the following structural features i Yand Yare both a C Calkyl ii Wis CN iii Wis perhaloalkyl. In some embodiments Z is S Yand Yare the same C Calkyl Wis CN and Wis CF. In one particular such embodiment Z is S Yand Yare each methyl Wis CN and Wis CF. In one particular such embodiment Z is S Yand Yare each methyl Yis carboxyl Wis CN and Wis CF. In some embodiments the compounds of formula V are provided where Z is S and the compound is further defined by one or more of the following structural features i Yand Yare taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a C Ccycloalkyl ii Wis CN iii Wis perhaloalkyl iv Yis carboxyl. In some embodiments Z is S Yand Yare taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a C Ccycloalkyl Wis CN and Wis CF. In one particular embodiment Z is O Yand Yare taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a cyclopropyl Yis carboxyl Wis CN and Wis CF.

In some embodiments the compounds of formula V are provided where Z is S and the compound is further defined by one or more of the following structural features i Yand Yare both a C Calkyl ii Wis CN iii Wis perhaloalkyl iv Yis selected from the group consisting of thiocarboxyl aminocarbonyl N alkyl aminocarbonyl N N dialkyl aminocarbonyl formyl alkyl carbonyl or alkoxycarbonyl. In one particular such embodiment Yis alkoxycarbonyl or aminocarbonyl. In one particular such embodiment Z is S Yand Yare each methyl Yis alkoxycarbonyl or aminocarbonyl Wis CN and Wis CF. In some embodiments the compounds of formula V are provided where Z is S and the compound is further defined by one or more of the following structural features i Yand Yare taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a C Ccycloalkyl ii Wis CN iii Wis perhaloalkyl iv Yis alkoxycarbonyl or aminocarbonyl. In some embodiments Z is S Yand Yare taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a C Ccycloalkyl Wis CN and Wis CF. In one particular embodiment Z is O Yand Yare taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a cyclopropyl Yis alkoxycarbonyl or aminocarbonyl Wis CN and Wis CF.

In some embodiments T is C. In some embodiments T is N. It is understood that where applicable any embodiment may in some embodiments be further defined by T being C. It is understood that where applicable any embodiment may in some embodiments be further defined by T being N. For example the embodiments described herein may in some embodiments be further defined by T being C. Additionally it is understood that the embodiments described herein may in some embodiments be further defined by T being N.

Compounds of formula V are provided where Ris C Calkyl NRRwhere Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H or a C Calkyl or Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a heterocyclic ring. In some embodiments the C Calkyl moiety of C Calkyl NRRis a CH moiety where n is an integer from 1 to 8. In some embodiments n is less than 4. In some embodiments n is 1. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H. For example Rin some embodiments is methyl ethyl propyl butyl or pentyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H. Compounds of formula V are also provided where Ris a C Calkyl and Ris a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Ris a C Ccycloalkyl and Ris a C Calkyl e.g. methyl . In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare the same C Calkyl e.g. when both Rand Rare ethyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In still some embodiments Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a heterocyclic ring. In some embodiments when Rand Rare taken together to form a heterocyclic ring the ring is a 4 to 7 membered heterocyclic ring. The heterocyclic ring formed by R Rand the N to which they are attached in some embodiments contains only C and N as annular atoms. In some embodiments the heterocycle contains as annular atoms only C and the N provided when Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached. In a particular Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl ring. Where applicable for any detailed herein wherein Ris C Calkyl NRR in some embodiments the C Calkyl moiety of C Calkyl NRRis a CH moiety where n is 1. Thus Rin some embodiments is CHNRRwhere Rand Rmay be as defined herein. In some embodiments Ris 

In some of these embodiments the compound is further defined by any one or more of the following structural features i Wis CN ii Wis perhaloalkyl e.g. CF iii Z is S iv Yand Yare both methyl and v T is C. In some embodiments Ris as defined above and the compound is further defined by any one or more of the following structural features i Wis CN ii Wis perhaloalkyl e.g. CF iii Z is S iv Yand Yare both methyl v Ris halogen e.g. F and vi T is C.

In some embodiments Ris O C Calkyl NRRwhere Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H or a C Calkyl or Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a heterocyclic ring. In some embodiments the C Calkyl moiety of O C Calkyl NRRis a CH moiety where n is an integer from 1 to 8. In some embodiments n is less than 4. In some embodiments n is 2. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H. For example Rin some embodiments is methyl ethyl propyl butyl or pentyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H. Compounds of formula V are also provided where Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare the same C Calkyl e.g. when both Rand Rare methyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In still some embodiments Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a heterocyclic ring. In some embodiments when Rand Rare taken together to form a heterocyclic ring the ring is a 4 to 7 membered heterocyclic ring. The heterocyclic ring formed by R Rand the N to which they are attached in some embodiments contains only C and N as annular atoms. In some embodiments the heterocycle contains as annular atoms only C and the N provided when Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached. In a particular Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl ring. Where applicable for any detailed herein wherein Ris O C Calkyl NRR in some embodiments the C Calkyl moiety of O C Calkyl NRRis a CH moiety where n is 2. Thus Rin some embodiments is OCHCHNRRwhere Rand Rmay be as defined herein. In some embodiments Ris 

In some of these embodiments the compound is further defined by any one or more of the following structural features i Wis CN ii Wis perhaloalkyl e.g. CF iii Z is S iv Yand Yare both methyl v Ris H and vi T is C.

In some embodiments Ris C O NRRwhere Rand Rare as defined in provisions i or ii or iii or iv i Rand Rare independently H or a C Calkyl ii Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H or a C Calkyl iii Ris a C Calkyl and Ris C Calkyl or iv Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a heterocyclic ring. In some embodiments the compound is of the formula V where Ris C O NRRand Rand Rare independently H or a C Calkyl. In some embodiments the compound is of the formula V where Ris C O NRRand Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H or a C Calkyl. In some embodiments the compound is of the formula V where Ris C O NRRand Ris a C Calkyl and Ris C Calkyl. In some embodiments the compound is of the formula V where Ris C O NRRand Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a heterocyclic ring. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H. For example Rin some embodiments is methyl ethyl propyl butyl pentyl or hexyl and Ris H. In another particular embodiment Ris a C Ccycloalkyl e.g. cyclopentyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Cbranched alkyl e.g. tert butyl and Ris H. In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H e.g. where Ris methyl and Ris H . In some embodiments Ris a C Calkyl and Ris H e.g. where Ris propyl or butyl and Ris H . In another particular embodiment Ris a C Calkyl and Ris a C Calkyl e.g. where Ris ethyl and Ris methyl . Compounds of formula V are also provided where Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl e.g. where both Rand Rare methyl . In some embodiments the compounds of formula V are provided where Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare the same C Calkyl e.g. when both Rand Rare ethyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In some embodiments Rand Rare independently a C Calkyl. In some embodiments at least one of Rand Ris a C Ccycloalkyl. In still some embodiments Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a heterocyclic ring. In some embodiments when Rand Rare taken together to form a heterocyclic ring the ring is a 4 to 7 membered heterocyclic ring. The heterocyclic ring formed by R Rand the N to which they are attached in some embodiments contains only C and N as annular atoms. In some embodiments the heterocycle contains as annular atoms only C and the N provided when Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached. In a particular Rand Rare taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl ring. In some embodiments Ris 

In some of these embodiments the compound is further defined by any one or more of the following structural features i Wis CN ii Wis perhaloalkyl e.g. CF or hydrogen iii Z is S iv Yand Yare both methyl and vi T is C. In some embodiments Ris as defined above and the compound is further defined by any one or more of the following structural features i Wis CN ii Wis perhaloalkyl e.g. CF or hydrogen iii Z is S iv Yand Yare taken together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a cyclopropyl and vi T is C.

In any embodiment detailed herein Rin some embodiments is halo e.g. F . In some embodiments Ris H. In some embodiments Ris halo when Ris C Calkyl NRRor C O NRR. In some embodiments Ris H when Ris O C Calkyl NRR.

In any embodiment detailed herein Yis thiocarboxyl carboxyl aminocarbonyl N alkyl aminocarbonyl N N dialkyl aminocarbonyl formyl alkyl carbonyl or alkoxy carbonyl. In a particular Yis carboxyl. In another particular Yis alkoxycarbonyl. In another particular Yis aminocarbonyl.

In a variation of any one of formula V A V B V C V D V E V F V G V H V J V K V L to V M detailed herein in particular embodiments Yis thiocarboxyl carboxyl aminocarbonyl N alkyl aminocarbonyl N N dialkyl aminocarbonyl formyl alkyl carbonyl or alkoxy carbonyl. In a particular variation of any one of formula V A V B V C V D V E V F V G V H V J V K V L to V M detailed herein Yis carboxyl. In another particular variation of any one of formula V A V B V C V D V E V F V G V H V J V K V L to V M detailed herein Yis alkoxy carbonyl. In another particular variation of any one of formula V A V B V C V D V E V F V G V H V J V K V L to V M detailed herein Yis aminocarbonyl.

Examples of compounds according to Formula V are depicted in Table 3. The compounds depicted may be present as salts even if salts are not depicted and it is understood that this disclosure embraces all salts and solvates of the compounds depicted here as well as the non salt and non solvate form of the compound as is well understood by the skilled artisan. It is thus understood that pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds are intended.

In some embodiments the compound is a metabolite of a diarylthiohydantoin compound for example as disclosed in WO 2010 099238.

Salts of compounds described above can be used in the disclosed methods. If a compound has for example at least one basic center it can form an acid addition salt. These are formed for example with strong inorganic acids such as mineral acids for example sulfuric acid phosphoric acid or a hydrohalic acid with strong organic carboxylic acids such as alkanecarboxylic acids of 1 to 4 carbon atoms which are unsubstituted or substituted for example by halogen for example acetic acid such as saturated or unsaturated dicarboxylic acids for example oxalic malonic succinic maleic fumaric phthalic or terephthalic acid such as hydroxycarboxylic acids for example ascorbic glycolic lactic malic tartaric or citric acid such as amino acids for example aspartic or glutamic acid or lysine or arginine or benzoic acid or with organic sulfonic acids such as C1 C4 alkyl or arylsulfonic acids which are unsubstituted or substituted for example by halogen for example methyl or p toluene sulfonic acid. Corresponding acid addition salts can also be formed having if desired an additionally present basic center. Compounds having at least one acid group for example COOH can also form salts with bases. Suitable salts with bases are for example metal salts such as alkali metal or alkaline earth metal salts for example sodium potassium or magnesium salts or salts with ammonia or an organic amine such as morpholine thiomorpholine piperidine pyrrolidine a mono di or tri lower alkylamine for example ethyl tert butyl diethyl diisopropyl triethyl tributyl or dimethyl propylamine or a mono di or trihydroxy lower alkylamine for example mono di or triethanolamine. Corresponding internal salts can furthermore be formed. Salts which are unsuitable for pharmaceutical uses but which can be employed for example for the isolation or purification of free compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts are also included. In some embodiments salts of compounds which contain a basic group include monohydrochloride hydrogensulfate methanesulfonate phosphate or nitrate. In some embodiments salts of compounds which contain an acid group include sodium potassium and magnesium salts and pharmaceutically acceptable organic amines.

In some embodiments the salts are pharmaceutically acceptable e.g. non toxic physiologically acceptable salts. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts retain at least some of the biological activity of the free non salt compound and which can be administered as drugs or pharmaceuticals to an individual. Such salts for example include 1 acid addition salts formed with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid phosphoric acid and the like or formed with organic acids such as acetic acid oxalic acid propionic acid succinic acid maleic acid tartaric acid and the like 2 salts formed when an acidic proton present in the parent compound either is replaced by a metal ion e.g. an alkali metal ion an alkaline earth ion or an aluminum ion or coordinates with an organic base. Acceptable organic bases include ethanolamine diethanolamine triethanolamine and the like. Acceptable inorganic bases include aluminum hydroxide calcium hydroxide potassium hydroxide sodium carbonate sodium hydroxide and the like. Further examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts include those listed in Berge et al. Pharmaceutical Salts 1977 January 66 1 1 19. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts can be prepared in situ in the manufacturing process or by separately reacting a purified compound in its free acid or base form with a suitable organic or inorganic base or acid respectively and isolating the salt thus formed during subsequent purification. It should be understood that a reference to a pharmaceutically acceptable salt includes the solvent addition forms or crystal forms thereof particularly solvates or polymorphs. Solvates contain either stoichiometric or non stoichiometric amounts of a solvent and are often formed during the process of crystallization. Hydrates are formed when the solvent is water or alcoholates are formed when the solvent is alcohol. Polymorphs include the different crystal packing arrangements of the same elemental composition of a compound. Polymorphs usually have different X ray diffraction patterns infrared spectra melting points density hardness crystal shape optical and electrical properties stability and solubility. Various factors such as the recrystallization solvent rate of crystallization and storage temperature may cause a single crystal form to dominate.

In addition to the breast cancer indications discussed below and the therapeutic indications disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 709 517 US 2011 0003839 WO 2010 118354 WO 2011 044327 and WO 2010 099238 compounds of Formulae I II III IV V and VI can be used to treat androgen receptor related diseases or conditions such as benign prostate hyperplasia hair loss and acne. These and related compounds may also be useful as modulators of other nuclear receptors such as glucocorticoid receptor estrogen receptor and peroxisome proliferator activated receptor and as therapeutic agents for diseases in which nuclear receptors play a role such as breast cancer ovarian cancer diabetes cardiac diseases and metabolism related diseases.

 Treating or treatment as used herein is an approach for obtaining a beneficial or desired result including but not limited to relief from a symptom lessening of a symptom and preventing a worsening of a symptom associated with the disease being treated. Treatment also includes but is not limited to any one or more of enhancing survival time enhancing progression free survival time and reducing tumor size.

Compounds can be used to treat various forms of breast cancer whether or not the breast cancers express androgen receptors or estrogen receptors. Breast cancers that can be treated include but are not limited to basal like breast cancer BRCA1 related breast cancer medullary breast cancer metaplastic breast cancer special histologic type of breast cancer triple negative breast cancer and breast cancer resistant to endocrine therapy.

In some embodiment patients to be treated are post menopausal. In other embodiments patients to be treated are pre menopausal. In other embodiments patients to be treated are peri menopausal. In some embodiments patients to be treated are men.

In some embodiments breast cancers are ER i.e. 1 or more of the cells tested express ER detectable by immunocytochemistry . In some embodiments breast cancers contain cells that demonstrate estradiol mediated growth. In some embodiments patients to be treated have no detectable circulating levels of estradiol. In some embodiments patients to be treated have circulating levels of estradiol greater than 10 pmol L. In some embodiments patients to be treated have circulating levels of estradiol less than 10 pmol L. In some embodiments estradiol levels are measured by a double antibody procedure as described in Cummings et al. 287 216 20 2002.

In some of embodiments the breast cancer is a triple negative breast cancer including but not limited to subtypes of triple negative breast cancer such as of basal like type 1 BL1 basal like type 2 BL2 immunomodulatory IM mesenchymal M mesenchymal stem like MSL and luminal androgen receptor LAR subtypes. Triple negative breast cancer as used herein is characterized by lack of estrogen receptor ER progesterone receptor PR and lack of overexpression or amplification of Her2neu. A tumor is negative for expression of ER or PR if fewer than 1 of the cells tested are positive for ER or PR as measured by immunohistochemistry and if the Her2 gene is not expressed for example amplification is not detected by FISH . Triple negative breast cancer is clinically characterized as more aggressive and less responsive to standard treatment and is associated with poorer overall patient prognosis. It is diagnosed more frequently in younger women and in women with BRCA1 mutations.

In some embodiments a triple negative breast cancer is AR i.e. it contains cells that express detectable androgen receptors as detected by immunohistochemistry ligand binding or other methods known in the art. In other embodiments a triple negative breast cancer is AR .

Approximately 75 of breast cancers express the estrogen receptor ER and are candidates for endocrine therapy. The selective ER modulator tamoxifen is the most commonly prescribed endocrine therapy however approximately 30 percent of tumors that retain estrogen ER do not respond to estrogen ER directed therapies such as tamoxifen or aromatase inhibitors AI and nearly all patients with metastatic disease develop resistance. In such patients a compound can provide a therapeutic intervention.

In some embodiments the breast cancer is ER i.e. it contains detectable levels of estrogen receptor measured as described above but is resistant to endocrine therapy. Endocrine therapy as used herein includes administration of one or more aromatase inhibitors e.g. anastrozole exemestane letrozole and or administration of one or more estrogen receptor modulators e.g. tamoxifen raloxifen fulvestrant . Resistant to endocrine therapy as used herein means that the tumors primary or metastases do not respond to one or more of the above treatments by shrinking but rather remains the same size or increases in size or that recur in response to such treatment at any time in the patient s livespan.

In some embodiments the breast cancer is ER AR . In some embodiments the breast cancer is ER AR . In some embodiments the breast cancer contains cells that are progesterone receptor positive PR as detected by immunohistochemistry or ligand binding assays or any other method of detection. In some embodiments the breast cancer contains no detectable cells with progesterone receptors e.g. the breast cancer is progesterone receptor negative PR . In some embodiments a breast cancer contains cells that are Her2 positive Her2 as detected by observable Her2 gene amplification after in situ hybridization. In some embodiments a breast cancer contains no detectable cells with amplification or expression or overexpression of Her2 e.g. the breast cancer is Her2 negative Her2 . The progesterone receptors and Her2 can be present on the same or different populations of cells which may be the same or different as the populations of cells expressing ER and or AR.

In some embodiments a breast cancer is identified as AR ER and Her2 . In some embodiments a breast cancer is identified as AR ER and PR . In some embodiments a breast cancer is identified as AR ER Her2 and PR . In some embodiments a breast cancer is identified as AR ER and Her2 . In some embodiments a breast cancer is identified as AR ER and PR . In some embodiments a breast cancer is identified as AR ER Her2 and PR . In some embodiments a breast cancer is identified as AR ER HER2 PR .

Compounds can be formulated in any type of pharmaceutical composition known in the art including but not limited to tablets troches pills capsules syrups elixirs injectable solutions and the like.

A pharmaceutical composition typically includes a pharmaceutically or pharmacologically acceptable excipient or carrier. As used herein by pharmaceutically acceptable or pharmacologically acceptable is meant a material that is not biologically or otherwise undesirable e.g. the material may be incorporated into a pharmaceutical composition administered to a patient without causing any significant undesirable biological effects or interacting in a deleterious manner with any of the other components of the composition in which it is contained. In some embodiments pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or excipients have met the required standards of toxicological and manufacturing testing and or are included on the Inactive Ingredient Guide prepared by the U.S. Food and Drug administration.

The term excipient as used herein means an inert or inactive substance that may be used in the production of a drug or pharmaceutical such as a tablet containing a compound as an active ingredient. Various substances may be embraced by the term excipient including without limitation any substance used as a binder disintegrant coating compression encapsulation aid cream or lotion lubricant solutions for parenteral administration materials for chewable tablets sweetener or flavoring suspending gelling agent or wet granulation agent. Binders include e.g. carbomers povidone xanthan gum etc. coatings include e.g. cellulose acetate phthalate ethylcellulose gellan gum maltodextrin enteric coatings etc. compression encapsulation aids include e.g. calcium carbonate dextrose fructose dc dc directly compressible honey dc lactose anhydrate or monohydrate optionally in combination with aspartame cellulose or microcrystalline cellulose starch dc sucrose etc. disintegrants include e.g. croscarmellose sodium gellan gum sodium starch glycolate etc. creams or lotions include e.g. maltodextrin carrageenans etc. lubricants include e.g. magnesium stearate stearic acid sodium stearyl fumarate etc. materials for chewable tablets include e.g. dextrose fructose dc lactose monohydrate optionally in combination with aspartame or cellulose etc. suspending gelling agents include e.g. carrageenan sodium starch glycolate xanthan gum etc. sweeteners include e.g. aspartame dextrose fructose dc sorbitol sucrose dc etc. and wet granulation agents include e.g. calcium carbonate maltodextrin microcrystalline cellulose etc.

Tablets troches pills capsules and the like can also contain the following binders such as gum tragacanth acacia corn starch or gelatin excipients such as dicalcium phosphate a disintegrating agent such as corn starch potato starch alginic acid and the like a lubricant such as magnesium stearate and a sweetening agent such as sucrose fructose lactose or aspartame or a flavoring agent such as peppermint oil of wintergreen or cherry flavoring can be added. When the unit dosage form is a capsule it can contain in addition to materials of the above type a liquid carrier such as a vegetable oil or a polyethylene glycol. Various other materials can be present as coatings or to otherwise modify the physical form of the solid unit dosage form. For instance tablets pills or capsules can be coated with gelatin wax shellac or sugar and the like. A syrup or elixir can contain the active compound sucrose or fructose as a sweetening agent methyl and propylparabens as preservatives a dye and flavoring such as cherry or orange flavor. Of course any material used in preparing any unit dosage form should be pharmaceutically acceptable and substantially non toxic in the amounts employed. In addition a diarylhydantoin compound can be incorporated into sustained release preparations and devices. For example a compound can be incorporated into time release capsules time release tablets and time release pills.

Pharmaceutical dosage forms suitable for injection or infusion can include sterile aqueous solutions or dispersions or sterile powders comprising a compound which are adapted for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable or infusible solutions or dispersions optionally encapsulated in liposomes. The ultimate dosage form typically is sterile fluid and stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage. The liquid carrier or vehicle can be a solvent or liquid dispersion medium comprising for example water ethanol a polyol for example glycerol propylene glycol liquid polyethylene glycols and the like vegetable oils nontoxic glyceryl esters and suitable mixtures thereof. The proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the formation of liposomes by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersions or by the use of surfactants. The prevention of the action of microorganisms can be brought about by various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid thimerosal and the like. In many cases isotonic agents are included for example sugars buffers or sodium chloride. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by the use in the compositions of agents delaying absorption for example aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

Sterile injectable solutions are prepared by incorporating a compound in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with various of the other ingredients enumerated above as required followed by filter sterilization. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions methods of preparation include vacuum drying and freeze drying techniques which yield a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient present in the previously sterile filtered solutions.

Useful solid carriers include finely divided solids such as talc clay microcrystalline cellulose silica alumina and the like. Other solid carriers include nontoxic polymeric nanoparticles or microparticles. Useful liquid carriers include water alcohols or glycols or water alcohol glycol blends in which a compound can be dissolved or dispersed at effective levels optionally with the aid of non toxic surfactants. Adjuvants such as fragrances and additional antimicrobial agents can be added to optimize the properties for a given use. The resultant liquid compositions can be applied from absorbent pads used to impregnate bandages and other dressings or sprayed onto the affected area using pump type or aerosol sprayers.

Thickeners such as synthetic polymers fatty acids fatty acid salts and esters fatty alcohols modified celluloses or modified mineral materials can also be employed with liquid carriers to form spreadable pastes gels ointments soaps and the like for application directly to the skin of the user.

Examples of useful dermatological compositions which can be used to deliver a compound to the skin are known to the art for example see Jacquet et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 608 392 Geria U.S. Pat. No. 4 992 478 Smith et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 559 157 and Wortzman U.S. Pat. No. 4 820 508 .

In some embodiments the pharmaceutical composition is a unit dosage form. As used herein unit dosage form is a physically discrete unit containing a predetermined quantity of active.

As used herein the term effective amount intends such amount of a compound which in combination with its parameters of efficacy and toxicity as well as based on the knowledge of the practicing specialist should be effective in a given therapeutic form. As is understood in the art an effective amount may be in one or more doses i.e. a single dose or multiple doses may be required to achieve the desired treatment endpoint. An effective amount may be considered in the context of administering one or more therapeutic agents and a single agent may be considered to be given in an effective amount if in conjunction with one or more other agents a desirable or beneficial result may be or is achieved. Suitable doses of any of the co administered compounds may optionally be lowered due to the combined action e.g. additive or synergistic effects of the compounds.

Useful dosages of compounds can be determined by comparing their in vitro activity and or in vivo activity in animal models. Methods for the extrapolation of effective dosages in mice and other animals to humans are known to the art for example see U.S. Pat. No. 4 938 949. For example the concentration of a compound in a liquid composition such as a lotion can be from about 0.1 25 by weight or from about 0.5 10 by weight. The concentration in a semi solid or solid composition such as a gel or a powder can be about 0.1 5 by weight or about 0.5 2.5 by weight.

The amount of a compound required for use in treatment will vary not only with the particular salt selected but also with the route of administration the nature of the condition being treated and the age and condition of the patient and will be ultimately at the discretion of the attendant physician or clinician.

Effective dosages and routes of administration of compounds are conventional. The exact amount effective dose of the agent will vary from subject to subject depending on for example the species age weight and general or clinical condition of the subject the severity or mechanism of any disorder being treated the particular agent or vehicle used the method and scheduling of administration and the like. A therapeutically effective dose can be determined empirically by conventional procedures known to those of skill in the art. See e.g. The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics Goodman and Gilman eds. Macmillan Publishing Co. New York. For example an effective dose can be estimated initially either in cell culture assays or in suitable animal models. The animal model can also be used to determine the appropriate concentration ranges and routes of administration. Such information can then be used to determine useful doses and routes for administration in humans. A therapeutic dose can also be selected by analogy to dosages for comparable therapeutic agents.

The particular mode of administration and the dosage regimen will be selected by the attending clinician taking into account the particulars of the case e.g. the subject the disease the disease state involved and whether the treatment is prophylactic . Treatment can involve daily or multi daily doses of compound s over a period of a few days to months or even years.

In general however a suitable dose will be in the range of from about 0.001 to about 100 mg kg e.g. from about 0.01 to about 100 mg kg of body weight per day such as above about 0.1 mg per kilogram or in a range of from about 1 to about 10 mg per kilogram body weight of the recipient per day. For example a suitable dose can be about 1 mg kg 10 mg kg or 50 mg kg of body weight per day.

A compound is conveniently administered in unit dosage form for example containing 0.05 to 10000 mg 0.5 to 10000 mg 5 to 1000 mg or about 100 mg of active ingredient per unit dosage form.

A compound can be administered to achieve peak plasma concentrations of for example from about 0.5 to about 75 M about 1 to 50 M about 2 to about 30 M or about 5 to about 25 M. Exemplary desirable plasma concentrations include at least or no more than 0.25 0.5 1 5 10 25 50 75 100 or 200 M. For example plasma levels can be from about 1 to 100 micromolar or from about 10 to about 25 micromolar. This can be achieved for example by the intravenous injection of a 0.05 to 5 solution of a diarylhydantoin or hydantoin compound optionally in saline or orally administered as a bolus containing about 1 100 mg of a diarylhydantoin or hydantoin compound. Desirable blood levels can be maintained by continuous infusion to provide about 0.00005 5 mg per kg body weight per hour for example at least or no more than 0.00005 0.0005 0.005 0.05 0.5 or 5 mg kg hr. Alternatively such levels can be obtained by intermittent infusions containing about 0.0002 20 mg per kg body weight for example at least or no more than 0.0002 0.002 0.02 0.2 2 20 or 50 mg of a compound per kg of body weight.

A compound can conveniently be presented in a single dose or as divided doses administered at appropriate intervals for example as two three four or more sub doses per day. The sub dose itself can be further divided e.g. into a number of discrete loosely spaced administrations such as multiple inhalations from an insufflator.

A compound can be administered using pharmaceutical compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of the compound and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent in a variety of forms adapted to the chosen route of administration for example orally nasally intraperitoneally or parenterally by intravenous intramuscular topical or subcutaneous routes or by injection into tissue.

A compound can be systemically administered e.g. orally in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle such as an inert diluent or an assimilable edible carrier or by inhalation or insufflation. It can be enclosed in hard or soft shell gelatin capsule can be compressed into a tablet or can be incorporated directly with the food of a patient s diet. For oral therapeutic administration a compound can be combined with one or more excipients and used in the form of an ingestible tablet a buccal tablet troche capsule elixir suspension syrup wafer and the like. A compound can be combined with a fine inert powdered carrier and inhaled by the subject or insufflated. In some embodiments such compositions and preparations contain at least 0.1 diarylhydantoin or hydantoin compound. The percentage of the compositions and preparations can of course be varied and can conveniently be between about 2 to about 60 of the weight of a given unit dosage form. The amount of diarylhydantoin or hydantoin compound in such therapeutically useful compositions is such that an effective dosage level will be obtained.

A compound can also be administered intravenously or intraperitoneally by infusion or injection. Solutions of a compound can be prepared in water optionally mixed with a nontoxic surfactant. Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol liquid polyethylene glycols triacetin and mixtures thereof and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use these preparations can contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms.

In some embodiments combinations of one or more compounds are used. A combination compounds includes one or more compounds administered substantially simultaneously whether or not in the same pharmaceutical composition or sequentially. compounds can but need not be chemically similar e.g. two diarylhydantoin compounds a diarylhydantoin compound and a diarylthiohydantoin etc. .

In some embodiments one or more compounds is combined other therapies such as internal or external radiation surgery and chemotherapies including 

One or more compounds also can be used in conjunction with combinations of chemical therapies such as 

Nothing in this specification should be considered as limiting the scope of this disclosure. All examples presented are representative and non limiting. The above described embodiments can be modified or varied as appreciated by those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the claims and their equivalents the embodiments disclosed herein can be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

MCF7 cells are commonly used luminal breast cancer cells that express high levels of ER and some AR. MCF7 cells were plated in phenol red free medium containing charcoal stripped serum. The next day cells were treated with vehicle alone ethanol EtOH 10 nM dihydrotestosterone DHT 10 M RD162 RD162 or a combination of DHT RD162 . An in vitro proliferation assay using the tetrazolium salt MTT was performed at various time points. The values were normalized to an untreated plate read 24 hours after plating to account for differences in cell density. The results are shown in . These experiments demonstrated that RD162 blocks DHT mediated growth of MCF7 cells.

BCK4 cells are breast cancer cells that express more AR than ER and respond better to androgens than to estrogens. Proliferation of BCK4 cells was assayed as described above in the presence of DHT and in the presence of RD162 and DHT. The results are shown in . These experiments demonstrated that RD162 blocks DHT mediated growth of BCK4 cells.

MCF7 cells were plated in phenol red free medium containing charcoal stripped serum. The next day cells were treated with vehicle alone EtOH 10 nM estradiol E2 10 M RD162 or a combination of E2 and RD162 . An MTT assay was performed at various time points. The values were normalized to an untreated plate read 24 hours after plating to account for differences in cell density. The results are shown in . This experiment demonstrates that RD162 blocks estradiol mediated growth of MCF7 cells.

Expression of SDF 1 a gene involved in estrogen mediated proliferation and the progesterone receptor gene a known estrogen regulated gene and marker of ER activity were assayed in the presence or absence of estradiol E2 . RD162 blocks E2 mediated upregulation of these E2 ER regulated genes indicating that RD162 modulates ER activity as shown in .

MCF7 cells 1 10cells engineered to express luciferase were mixed with 100 l of matrigel and injected into the mammary fat pad of 6 8 week old ovariectomized nod scid mice. Two tumors were implanted per mouse one on each side. The mice had a DHT pellet implanted subcutaneously at the time of injection of tumor cells. Tumor burden was measured by either caliper or whole body in vivo luminescent IVIS imaging. At day 22 mice were matched based on tumor burden measured by IVIS imaging and separated into two groups. One group received a control chow and the other received chow containing 50 mg kg RD162 . The results are shown in . depict tumor growth over time. show individual tumor size at the end of the study.

A Western blot of four luminal ER PR and four triple negative ER PR Her2 breast cancer cell lines for androgen receptor estrogen receptor and tubulin as a loading control was prepared . Three of the triple negative cell lines have robust AR expression.

MDA468 and BT20 cells were plated in phenol red free medium containing charcoal stripped serum. The next day cells were treated with vehicle alone EtOH 10 nM dihydrotestosterone DHT 10 M RD162 or a combination of DHT and RD162 . An MTT assay was performed at various time points. The values were normalized to an untreated plate read 24 hours after plating to account for differences in cell density. The results are shown in . This experiment demonstrates that RD162 blocks growth of triple negative breast cancer cells.

The effect of RD162 on DHT induced proliferation of apocrine breast cancer cells was assessed in MDA MB 453 cells which are AR ER HER2 and PR using a colorimetric in vitro proliferation assay using the tetrazolium salt MTS MTS assay and a luciferase assay. The results of the MTS assay are shown in . These results indicate that 10 M RD162 inhibits proliferation induced by 10 nM DHT.

A luciferase assay carried out with MDA kb2 cells which were derived from MDA MB 453 cells but contain an androgen dependent luciferase reporter demonstrated that RD162 inhibits proliferation induced by DHT in a dose dependent manner. The results are shown in . Error bars reflect the SEM of independent experiments and indicates P

Immunocytochemical assays were carried out in MDA kb2 cells using an antibody to AR. Cells were treated for 3 hours with vehicle Vh 1 nM DHT 10 M RD162 or 10 M RD162 and DHT. The graph shown in displays the ratio of nuclear to total AR for all cells measured. The results demonstrate that RD162 inhibits nuclear translocation of AR induced by DHT.

In vivo growth of apocrine breast cancer cells was investigated in a xenograft model in mammary glands of NOD SCID mice. MDA MB 453 cells 6 10 were injected into the 4inguinal mammary fat pad of NOD SCID IL2Rgc female mice. A 60 day release DHT pellet was implanted subcutaneously into 3 groups of mice at the time of cell injection. Tumor size was measured using calipers and once the tumors reached 100 mm the mice began receiving 10 mg kg d RD162 25 mg kg d RD162 or vehicle by oral gavage.

The results are shown in and . The results demonstrate that RD162 at either dose inhibited tumor growth induced by DHT . Tumors were weighed at necropsy and both doses of RD162 significantly inhibited DHT induced tumor growth . Error bars reflect the SEM and indicates P

Hs578T a TNBC cell line was plated in phenol red free DMEM F12 containing 5 DCC for 2 days before treated with vehicle control RD162 10 M DHT 10 nM and RD162 DHT for 9 days. Viable cells were assayed by MTS assay. The results are shown in . Averages of the triplicate data points are shown with standard deviation. p

SKBR3 a Her2 breast cancer cell line was grown in DMEM 1 FBS in the presence of vehicle control 10 M RD162 20 g ml of Herceptin and RD162 Herceptin respectively for 8 days before analyzed for viable cells with MTS assay. The results are shown in . Averages of the triplicate data points are shown with standard deviation. p

MDA MB 453 cells were injected orthotopically in the mammary gland of female NOD SCID IL2Rgc mice. Three groups had a DHT pellet implanted SQ and one group had no pellet Vehicle . Once the tumors reached 100 mm the mice were given either RD162 10 mg kg or vehicle Vehicle and DHT groups by daily oral gavage. When the tumors reached 400 mm another group was given a higher dose of RD162 25 mg kg by oral gavage. The results are shown in .

MCF7 TGL cells stably expressing luciferase were implanted orthotopically in the mammary gland of ovariectomized female nude mice. All mice had an E2 pellet implanted SQ and were either given control chow E2 control chow plus a tamoxifen pellet implanted SQ E2 tam or chow containing 50 mg kg RD162 E2 RD162 . The beginning of treatment is indicated by an arrow. Tumor burden was measured by whole body luminescence. The results are shown in . Mean total flux of all mice in each of the treatment groups is shown. Mice were matched on day 3 and treatment began on day 0. indicates P

