---

title: Contextual voice query dilation to improve spoken web searching
abstract: A method for contextual voice query dilation in a Spoken Web search includes determining a context in which a voice query is created, generating a set of multiple voice query terms based on the context and information derived by a speech recognizer component pertaining to the voice query, and processing the set of query terms with at least one dilation operator to produce a dilated set of queries. A method for performing a search on a voice query is also provided, including generating a set of multiple query terms based on information derived by a speech recognizer component processing a voice query, processing the set with multiple dilation operators to produce multiple dilated sub-sets of query terms, selecting at least one query term from each dilated sub-set to compose a query set, and performing a search on the query set.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08731930&OS=08731930&RS=08731930
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08731930
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120808
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 470 548 filed May 14 2012 and incorporated by reference herein.

Embodiments of the invention generally relate to information technology and more particularly to Spoken Web searching.

Spoken Web searching involves taking a voice query as input and determining the content that is an appropriate or relevant response to the query. However with existing approaches the conversion of the voice query to text can be ambiguous owing to factors such as for example the quality and or accuracy of the speech recognition system. If the query is incorrectly converted the search results can suffer. Additionally many existing speech recognition systems have low accuracy for voice queries particularly with respect to open ended queries and isolated words where the grammar syntax cannot be enforced.

In one aspect of the present invention techniques for contextual voice query dilation are provided. An exemplary computer implemented method for contextual voice query dilation in a Spoken Web search can include steps of determining a context in which a voice query is created generating a set of multiple voice query terms based on the context and information derived by a speech recognizer component pertaining to the voice query and processing the set of query terms with at least one dilation operator to produce a dilated set of queries.

In another aspect of the invention techniques for performing a search on a voice query is also provided including the steps of generating a set of multiple query terms based on information derived by a speech recognizer component processing a voice query processing the set of query terms with multiple dilation operators to produce multiple dilated sub sets of query terms selecting at least one query term from each dilated sub set to compose a query set and performing a search on the query set.

Another aspect of the invention or elements thereof can be implemented in the form of an article of manufacture tangibly embodying computer readable instructions which when implemented cause a computer to carry out a plurality of method steps as described herein. Furthermore another aspect of the invention or elements thereof can be implemented in the form of an apparatus including a memory and at least one processor that is coupled to the memory and operative to perform noted method steps.

Yet further another aspect of the invention or elements thereof can be implemented in the form of means for carrying out the method steps described herein or elements thereof the means can include i hardware module s ii software module s or iii a combination of hardware and software modules any of i iii implement the specific techniques set forth herein and the software modules are stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium or multiple such media .

These and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments thereof which is to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings.

As described herein an aspect of the present invention includes contextual voice query dilation to improve Spoken Web searching. At least one embodiment of the invention includes determining the context in which a voice query is created and using this context and the knowledge of a speech recognizer component to generate a multitude of voice queries. Having a large number of queries will facilitate obtaining more search results and increase the likelihood of producing the result in which the user is interested.

As described herein at least one embodiment of the invention includes removing the search dependency on the recognition of one query word by designing a mechanism to generate multiple possible variations of the query and therefore create an estimation of a query vector from a query word or phrase. Accordingly given a query q the techniques detailed herein can include generating an estimate for the query vector q q . . . q .

At least one embodiment of the invention includes generating a list of similar referred to herein as n best results from the speech recognizer. Because the speech recognizer provides a probabilistic output it can be configured so that more than one possible result can be provided. An n best list refers to the n possible text results that the speech recognizer can provide for a given audio input. In at least one embodiment of the invention such a list can be ranked for example with the probability scores of each possible result being the correct response. Additionally such a list can be filtered through dilation operators as further detailed herein. If there are fewer output results as an example if the results are of the order three or less at least one embodiment of the invention includes determining the edit distance between the dilation operator words and the n best list match.

Additionally a listing or sub set of the results can be selected from the output of each dilation filter and used to compose a query set. By way of example each dilation operator can generate possible query terms and the top k output of each such dilation operator can be chosen based on a threshold to compose the query set across all dilation operators. A search can be performed on this query set and in at least one embodiment of the invention the results can be ranked such that the results occurring in more elements of the dilation output are ranked higher.

Accordingly at least one embodiment of the invention removes the dependency on speech recognition of an entire search result set. Additionally the techniques detailed herein can improve the recall for a specific query and being specific to a user the search result can also provide a user with content that may be of relevance to him or her even if that content was not specifically searching for by the user.

As noted above at least one embodiment of the invention includes using dilation operators. In an example embodiment of the invention the dilation operators include operators that expand a query based on the questions of who what when and where. By way of example one such dilation operator can include considerations such as who the other users are having a similarity with the query user whether a user is extracted through demographics information through collaborative filtering on logs etc. as well as a weighted list of search terms that are commonly searched by this group of users.

Another such dilation operator can include considerations such as identifying the prior searches performed by a user as well as extrapolating the domain using ontologies to generate a list of search terms. Additionally another dilation operator can include considerations such as the month week and or day when the user is generating the query as well as generating a list of the query words that are generated during those times by other users. Further yet another dilation operator can include considerations such as where the query was generated obtaining such information from the demographics of the query creator and obtaining a list of query terms that are generated by people in the target region.

Accordingly as depicted in the speech recognition module generates the n best query terms based upon query term and provides the same to a dilation operations module . As described above the dilation operations module can include dilation operators such as a who dilation operator a what dilation operator a when dilation operator and a where dilation operator .

The dilation operations module via processing carried out by the dilation operators produces a query set and forwards the query set to an index database . The index database separates results from each term in the query set. As an example the output of a dilation operator can be a set of possible queries. Each query in this set will be passed to the index to search for a relevant document from the database. Thus a set of results will be generated for queries from the dilation operator . Similar results will be generated from other dilation operator queries. These independent search results through the queries of the different dilation operators and the index are sent to ranking module which ranks the query set input and generates a combined ranked list output.

In at least one embodiment of the invention the combined ranked list output is generated based on the following parameters the weight that is assigned to the dilation operators the gamma parameter as detailed further below the weight of each dilation operator w w . . . w and the score of the output of the indexed database results w w . . . w . Using these parameters ensures that the system is configurable through the parameter gamma a high value of which means that the system does not weight the dilation technique strongly and relies more on the query itself. In conditions where the speech to text quality is very good a high value of gamma should be used. However if the speech recognizer output is not reliable a low value of gamma should be used. The different weights of the dilation parameters wto w assuming that there are n dilation parameters show what value is ascertained to the different parameters based on the context of the application. The weights for the nquery w w . . . w assuming that there were k results from the indexed database for a particular query can be standard ranked.

As noted above at least one embodiment of the invention includes using the gamma parameter in connection with ranking detailed as follows 

The final ranked results can be delivered from a combination of w wand right arrow over w right arrow over w . . . right arrow over w .

Step includes determining whether filtering produces results that are less than a threshold K. This threshold is a configurable parameter that controls the number of queries that need to be created from the original query. A large value of K can result in higher precision but lower recall meaning that the search results may have incorrect documents but more documents may be retrieved. A low value of K will result in fewer documents but most would likely be relevant. If the results are not less than the threshold K a partial query set is output. If the results are less than the threshold K step includes determining the K closest matches and subsequently outputting a partial query set.

Step provides for example for cases where the speech recognizer is not able to provide a good result of the initial query. As an example the word Manchester in an original query might have been decoded as Fan wrest her. In such a case the K closest matches of the phrase Fan wrest her to the words in dilation step will be provided as an output in step . The matches can be found by using a string edit distance measure.

Step includes generating a set of multiple voice query terms based on the context and information derived by a speech recognizer component pertaining to the voice query. The generating step can include generating queries based on an ontology of search terms and or an existing word database that contains related search terms.

Step includes processing the set of query terms with at least one dilation operator to produce a dilated set of queries. Processing can include for example analyzing information about similar queries made by other users during a determined timeframe analyzing other users that have a similarity with the query user and or determining a weighted list of search terms that are commonly searched by a related group of users. Additionally processing can include identifying prior searches performed by a user as well as determining a geographic location where at least one related query was generated.

Also in at least one embodiment of the invention the amount of query dilation is configurable for different instances of searching and or for different qualities of speech recognizer.

Additionally as described herein at least one embodiment of the invention includes techniques for performing a search on a voice query. Such techniques include generating a set of multiple query terms based on information derived by a speech recognizer component processing a voice query processing the set of query terms with multiple dilation operator to produce multiple dilated sub sets of query terms selecting at least one query term from each dilated sub set to compose a query set and performing a search on the query set. The results of the search can be ranked such that results occurring in more elements of the dilated sub sets are ranked higher. Additionally the selecting step can include each dilation operator generating possible query terms and selecting the top k output of each dilation operator based on a pre determined threshold.

The techniques depicted in can also include ranking the dilated set of queries for example according to query occurrence in the at least one dilation operator.

The techniques depicted in can also as described herein include providing a system wherein the system includes distinct software modules each of the distinct software modules being embodied on a tangible computer readable recordable storage medium. All the modules or any subset thereof can be on the same medium or each can be on a different medium for example. The modules can include any or all of the components shown in the figures and or described herein. In an aspect of the invention the modules can run for example on a hardware processor. The method steps can then be carried out using the distinct software modules of the system as described above executing on a hardware processor. Further a computer program product can include a tangible computer readable recordable storage medium with code adapted to be executed to carry out at least one method step described herein including the provision of the system with the distinct software modules.

An example embodiment of the invention includes a system for contextual voice query dilation in a Spoken Web search that includes a memory at least one processor coupled to the memory and distinct software modules each embodied on a tangible computer readable medium including the following a speech recognition module executing on the processor for generating a set of multiple voice query terms based on a voice query a dilation operations module executing on the processor for processing the set of query terms to produce a dilated set of queries and a ranking module executing on the processor for ranking the dilated set of queries and outputting a ranked query set.

Additionally the techniques depicted in connection with can be implemented via a computer program product that can include computer useable program code that is stored in a computer readable storage medium in a data processing system and wherein the computer useable program code was downloaded over a network from a remote data processing system. Also in an aspect of the invention the computer program product can include computer useable program code that is stored in a computer readable storage medium in a server data processing system and wherein the computer useable program code is downloaded over a network to a remote data processing system for use in a computer readable storage medium with the remote system.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in a computer readable medium having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

An aspect of the invention or elements thereof can be implemented in the form of an apparatus including a memory and at least one processor that is coupled to the memory and operative to perform exemplary method steps.

Additionally an aspect of the present invention can make use of software running on a general purpose computer or workstation. With reference to such an implementation might employ for example a processor a memory and an input output interface formed for example by a display and a keyboard . The term processor as used herein is intended to include any processing device such as for example one that includes a CPU central processing unit and or other forms of processing circuitry. Further the term processor may refer to more than one individual processor. The term memory is intended to include memory associated with a processor or CPU such as for example RAM random access memory ROM read only memory a fixed memory device for example hard drive a removable memory device for example diskette a flash memory and the like.

In addition the phrase input output interface as used herein is intended to include for example a mechanism for inputting data to the processing unit for example mouse and a mechanism for providing results associated with the processing unit for example printer . The processor memory and input output interface such as display and keyboard can be interconnected for example via bus as part of a data processing unit . Suitable interconnections for example via bus can also be provided to a network interface such as a network card which can be provided to interface with a computer network and to a media interface such as a diskette or CD ROM drive which can be provided to interface with media .

Accordingly computer software including instructions or code for performing the methodologies of the invention as described herein may be stored in associated memory devices for example ROM fixed or removable memory and when ready to be utilized loaded in part or in whole for example into RAM and implemented by a CPU. Such software could include but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode and the like.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus . The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual implementation of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during implementation.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices and the like can be coupled to the system either directly such as via bus or through intervening I O controllers omitted for clarity .

Network adapters such as network interface may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

As used herein including the claims a server includes a physical data processing system for example system as shown in running a server program. It will be understood that such a physical server may or may not include a display and keyboard.

As noted aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in a computer readable medium having computer readable program code embodied thereon. Also any combination of computer readable media may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium.

A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using an appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of at least one programming language including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. Accordingly an aspect of the invention includes an article of manufacture tangibly embodying computer readable instructions which when implemented cause a computer to carry out a plurality of method steps as described herein.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module component segment or portion of code which comprises at least one executable instruction for implementing the specified logical function s .

It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

It should be noted that any of the methods described herein can include an additional step of providing a system comprising distinct software modules embodied on a computer readable storage medium the modules can include for example any or all of the components detailed herein. The method steps can then be carried out using the distinct software modules and or sub modules of the system as described above executing on a hardware processor . Further a computer program product can include a computer readable storage medium with code adapted to be implemented to carry out at least one method step described herein including the provision of the system with the distinct software modules.

In any case it should be understood that the components illustrated herein may be implemented in various forms of hardware software or combinations thereof for example application specific integrated circuit s ASICS functional circuitry an appropriately programmed general purpose digital computer with associated memory and the like. Given the teachings of the invention provided herein one of ordinary skill in the related art will be able to contemplate other implementations of the components of the invention.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of another feature integer step operation element component and or group thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed.

At least one aspect of the present invention may provide a beneficial effect such as for example removing the dependency on speech recognition of an entire search result set.

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments. The terminology used herein was chosen to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

