---

title: Soluble mediator
abstract: The present disclosure relates to a soluble CD52 glycoprotein and its use in treating diseases regulated by effector T-cells, for example autoimmune diseases such as type 1 diabetes. The present disclosure also relates to fusion proteins comprising the soluble glycoprotein, to cells expressing high levels of CD52, and to diagnostic methods based on the detection of CD52 expression levels in a subject.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09585969&OS=09585969&RS=09585969
owner: The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research
number: 09585969
owner_city: Parkville
owner_country: AU
publication_date: 20121115
---
The present disclosure generally relates to cell populations and soluble mediators capable of suppressing T cell activation and to the use of such cell populations and soluble mediators to suppress T cell activation such as in the treatment of diseases or conditions mediated by effector T cell function. The disclosure also relates to methods of detecting the presence of a marker in a subject which marker is indicative of the subject s susceptibility to diseases or conditions mediated by effector T cell function.

Regulatory T cells Treg cells also known as suppressor T cells are subpopulations of T cells that maintain immune homeostasis and help avert autoimmune disease Sakaguchi et al. 2008 Shevach 2006 Vignali et al. 2008 . Interest in Treg cells is focused predominantly on prototypic CD4 CD25 Treg cells that are programmed by the transcription factor FoxP3 Fontenot et al. 2003 Hori et al. 2003 . In resting polyspecific populations these Treg cells are characterised in the mouse both as natural thymus derived and induced adaptive cells that suppress the activation proliferation and functions of other T cells Sakaguchi et al. 2008 Shevach 2006 . However in human blood CD4 Treg cells are not as reliably distinguished by FoxP3 expression Roncarolo and Gregori 2008 Allan et al. 2007 Gavin et al. 2006 . Thus CD4 T cells with markers of either na ve or memory cells were shown to have similar suppressor functions despite low and high expression respectively of FoxP3 Miyara et al. 2009 . Other surface markers of human CD4 CD25 FoxP3 Treg cells such as decreased expression of the IL 7 receptor CD127 Liu et al. 2006 Seddiki et al. 2006 are not specific for Treg cells.

Aside from the paucity of specific cell surface markers the mechanisms underlying suppression by CD4 CD25 FoxP3 Treg cells remain controversial. In the mouse suppression ex vivo has been shown to require cell cell contact but has been attributed to multiple mechanisms Vignali et al. 2008 Shevach 2009 Sakaguchi et al. 2009 even less is known about the function of similar human Treg cells. Furthermore other types of both CD4 and CD8 Treg cells that differ in proposed mechanisms of suppressor function have been described in the context of various tissue sites or diseases Vignali et al. 2008 .

Treg cells induced by administration of autoantigens have been shown to protect against some autoimmune diseases in certain animal models reviewed by von Herrath and Harrison 2003 . For example in the nonobese diabetic NOD mouse model of type 1 diabetes T1D CD4 Treg cells induced by administered pancreatic islet autoantigens such as insulin Bergerot et al. 1994 or glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 GAD65 Tisch et al. 1999 or transfer of CD4 Treg cells induced by proinsulin Every et al. 2006 or a putative pancreatic islet antigen Tang et al. 2004 have been shown to protect against autoimmune diabetes. However in these models Treg cells have been studied in resting polyspecific populations and not during the host s response to a particular antigen. Recently proinsulin and GAD65 specific human CD4 T cell clones were generated and Treg clones were distinguished by their suppressor function in vitro Dromey et al. 2011 . The cell surface membrane anchored glycoprotein CD52 was shown to be upregulated in these expanded CD4 Treg clones. However the mechanism of immune suppression has not previously been characterized.

The present inventors have identified a soluble mediator of Treg cell suppression. Accordingly the present disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising any one or more of 

iii a polynucleotide encoding the peptide portion of soluble CD52 glycoprotein of part i or the fusion protein of part ii 

vii an isolated cell population comprising a plurality of CD52cells capable of producing soluble CD52 glycoprotein 

viii cell culture medium or a fraction thereof comprising soluble CD52 glycoprotein isolated from a cell culture comprising the cell of part vi or the cell population of part vii and

In a preferred embodiment the soluble CD52 glycoprotein comprises an amino acid sequence at least 60 identical to the amino acid sequence of any one or more of GQNDTSQTSSPS SEQ ID NO 3 SQNATSQSSPS SEQ ID NO 4 GQATTAASGTNKNSTSTKKTPLKS SEQ ID NO 5 GQNSTAVTTPANKAATTAAATTKAAATTATKTTTAVRKTPGKPPKA SEQ ID NO 6 or GNSTTPRMTTKKVKSATPA SEQ ID NO 7 and a carbohydrate. More preferably the glycoprotein comprises an amino acid sequence which is at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 identical or is 100 identical to any one or more of the amino acid sequences identified in SEQ ID NOs 3 4 5 6 or 7.

In one example the glycoprotein comprises an amino acid sequence at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 identical or is 100 identical to the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 3 which represents the human soluble CD52 fragment.

Preferably any one or more of the soluble CD52 glycoprotein fusion protein polynucleotide vector cell cell population cell culture medium and agent is present in an amount sufficient to suppress effector T cell function and or an immune response.

In a further embodiment the soluble CD52 glycoprotein fusion protein polynucleotide vector cell cell population cell culture medium and agent is present in an amount sufficient such that the suppression of the immune response results in tolerance to at least one antigen such an autoantigen.

In another embodiment any one or more of the soluble CD52 glycoprotein fusion protein cell cell population cell culture medium and agent is capable of suppressing effector T cell function and or is capable of reducing an immune response such as an immune response to an autoantigen.

In an embodiment the composition comprises one or more of the soluble CD52 glycoprotein fusion protein cell culture medium or agent and is formulated for mucosal and or transdermal administration.

The present disclosure also provides a fusion protein comprising soluble CD52 glycoprotein as a first protein and a second protein.

Preferably the soluble CD52 glycoprotein of the fusion protein comprises an amino acid sequence which is at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 identical or is 100 identical to any one or more of the amino acid sequences identified in SEQ ID NOs 3 4 5 6 or 7.

Preferably the fusion protein is capable of suppressing effector T cell function and or is capable of reducing an immune response such as an immune response to an autoantigen. In an embodiment the fusion protein reduces the immune response to an extent that it results in tolerance to at least one antigen such an autoantigen.

The second protein may be any protein capable of increasing the stability and or solubility of the soluble CD52 glycoprotein of enhancing the process of making the soluble CD52 glycoprotein by recombinant methods or of enhancing the therapeutic effect of the soluble CD52 glycoprotein. In one example the second protein may comprise an antibody fragment such as an Fc.

The present disclosure also provides an isolated or recombinant polynucleotide encoding the fusion protein disclosed herein.

The present disclosure also provides an isolated cell comprising the polynucleotide and or the vector disclosed herein. The cell may be a mammalian cell. In one example the cell is as HEK293T cell. In another example the cell is a Daudi B lymphoblast cell.

In addition the present disclosure provides a method of producing the fusion protein comprising expressing the polynucleotide or vector disclosed herein under glycosylation permitting conditions.

In an embodiment the glycosylation permitting conditions comprise expressing the fusion protein in a host cell such as a mammalian cell.

The present disclosure also provides a method of treating or preventing a disease or condition mediated by effector T cell function inflammation or sepsis in a subject the method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of any one or more of 

In an embodiment the soluble CD52 glycoprotein fusion protein cell culture medium agent or composition is administered at a mucosal or transdermal site.

In one example the disease mediated by effector T cell function is an autoimmune disease such as type I diabetes or rheumatoid arthritis. In another example the condition mediated by effector T cell function is an allograft rejection or a graft versus host reaction.

The present disclosure also provides a method of diagnosing a subject s susceptibility to developing a disease or condition mediated by effector T cell function inflammation or sepsis the method comprising 

comparing the level of soluble CD52 glycoprotein detected in the sample taken from the subject with a reference level determined from one or more healthy subjects 

wherein a lower level of soluble CD52 glycoprotein detected in the sample taken from the subject compared to the reference level indicates that the subject has an increased susceptibility to developing a disease or condition mediated by effector T cell function inflammation or sepsis.

The present disclosure also provides a method of diagnosing a subject s susceptibility to developing a disease or condition mediated by effector T cell function inflammation or sepsis the method comprising 

comparing the frequency of CD52cells detected in the sample taken from the subject with a reference level determined from one or more healthy subjects wherein a lower frequency of CD52cells detected in the sample taken from the subject compared to the reference level indicates that the subject has an increased susceptibility to developing a disease or condition mediated by effector T cell function inflammation or sepsis.

The present disclosure also provides a method of diagnosing a subject s susceptibility to developing a disease or condition mediated by effector T cell function inflammation or sepsis the method comprising 

comparing the activity of CD52cells detected in the sample taken from the subject with a reference level determined from one or more healthy subjects 

wherein a reduced activity of CD52cells detected in the sample taken from the subject compared to the reference level indicates that the subject has an increased susceptibility to developing a disease or condition mediated by effector T cell function inflammation or sepsis.

In one example the frequency of CD52cells is determined by detecting the level of membrane bound CD52 in the sample by detecting the level of expression of CD52 protein in the sample and or by detecting the level of expression of CD52 mRNA in the sample.

The present disclosure also provides a method of determining a subject s suitability for entry into a drug screening trial comprising performing the method of the invention and identifying the subject as being more suitable for entry into a drug screening trial if the subject has a lower level of soluble CD52 glycoprotein a lower frequency of CD52cells or a reduced activity of CD52cells than the reference sample. For example the drug screening trial is an anti diabetic drug screening trial.

In addition the present disclosure also provides a method of identifying an agent capable of mimicking the effector T cell suppressing and or immune response suppressing function of a soluble CD52 glycoprotein the method comprising determining whether a test agent suppresses effector T cell function and or an immune response.

The present disclosure also provides a method of identifying a potential therapeutic agent for the treatment or prevention of a disease or condition mediated by effector T cell function inflammation or sepsis the method comprising contacting a test agent with a CD52cell or CD52cell population and detecting any one or more of the level of soluble CD52 glycoprotein produced by the cell or cell population the frequency of CD52cells and or the activity of CD52cells and identifying the test agent as a potential therapeutic agent for the treatment or prevention of a disease or condition mediated by effector T cell function inflammation or sepsis if the level of soluble CD52 glycoprotein the frequency of CD52cells and or the activity of CD52cells is increased after contact with the test agent.

The features of any embodiment described herein shall be taken to apply mutatis mutandis to any other embodiment unless specifically stated otherwise.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein which are intended for the purpose of exemplification only. Functionally equivalent products compositions and methods are clearly within the scope of the invention as described herein.

Throughout this specification unless specifically stated otherwise or the context requires otherwise reference to a single step composition of matter group of steps or group of compositions of matter shall be taken to encompass one and a plurality i.e. one or more of those steps compositions of matter groups of steps or group of compositions of matter.

The invention is hereinafter described by way of the following non limiting Examples and with reference to the accompanying figures.

Unless specifically defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein shall be taken to have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art e.g. in cell culture molecular genetics immunology immunohistochemistry protein chemistry and biochemistry .

Unless otherwise indicated the recombinant protein cell culture and immunological techniques utilized in the present invention are standard procedures well known to those skilled in the art. Such techniques are described and explained throughout the literature in sources such as J. Perbal A Practical Guide to Molecular Cloning John Wiley and Sons 1984 J. Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbour Laboratory Press 1989 T. A. Brown editor Essential Molecular Biology A Practical Approach Volumes 1 and 2 IRL Press 1991 D. M. Glover and B. D. Hames editors DNA Cloning A Practical Approach Volumes 1 4 IRL Press 1995 and 1996 and F. M. Ausubel et al. editors Current Protocols in Molecular Biology Greene Pub. Associates and Wiley Interscience 1988 including all updates until present Ed Harlow and David Lane editors Antibodies A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbour Laboratory 1988 and J. E. Cagan et al. editors Current Protocols in Immunology John Wiley Sons including all updates until present .

The term and or e.g. X and or Y shall be understood to mean either X and Y or X or Y and shall be taken to provide explicit support for both meanings or for either meaning.

As used herein the term about unless stated to the contrary refers to 20 more preferably 10 more preferably 5 of the designated value. For the avoidance of doubt the term about followed by a designated value is to be interpreted as also encompassing the exact designated value itself for example about 10 also encompasses 10 exactly .

Throughout this specification the word comprise or variations such as comprises or comprising will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element integer or step or group of elements integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other element integer or step or group of elements integers or steps.

As used herein the term immune response has its ordinary meaning in the art and includes both humoral and cellular immunity. An immune response may be mediated by one or more of T cell activation B cell activation natural killer cell activation activation of antigen presenting cells e.g. B cells DCs monocytes and or macrophages cytokine production chemokine production specific cell surface marker expression in particular expression of co stimulatory molecules. In a preferred embodiment the immune response which is suppressed using the methods of the invention is at least effector T cell function by reducing the survival activity and or proliferation of this cell type. In another preferred embodiment the immune response which is suppressed using the methods of the invention is at least one or more of monocyte macrophage or dendritic cell function by reducing the survival activity and or proliferation of one or more of these cell types. In a further preferred embodiment the immune response is suppressed to an extent such that it induces tolerance to an antigen such as an autoantigen.

As used herein tolerance refers to a state of immune unresponsiveness to a specific antigen or group of antigens to which a subject is normally responsive. Immune tolerance is achieved under conditions that suppress the immune reaction and is not just the absence of an immune response.

As used herein the terms treating treat or treatment include administering a therapeutically effective amount of an agent sufficient to reduce or eliminate at least one symptom of disease.

As used herein the terms preventing prevent or prevention include administering a therapeutically effective amount of an agent sufficient to prevent the manifestation of at least one symptom of disease.

As used herein the term subject refers to an animal e.g. a mammal. In a preferred embodiment the subject is mammal for example a human. Other preferred embodiments include livestock animals such as horses cattle sheep and goats as well as companion animals such as cats and dogs.

As used herein the term host refers to any organism from which soluble CD52 can be isolated or in which soluble CD52 can be produced by any means. The host may be whole organism or may be a cell derived therefrom. The host may be an animal e.g. a mammal. In a preferred embodiment the host is mammalian for example a human. Other preferred hosts include mice rats monkeys hamsters guinea pigs rabbits and any animal or cell which may serve as a suitable host from which soluble CD52 can be isolated or in which soluble CD52 can be produced.

As used herein the terms linked attached conjugated bound coupled or variations thereof are used broadly to refer to any form of covalent or non covalent association which joins one entity to another for any period of time.

The present disclosure describes for the first time the suppression of immune cells such as effector T cells monocytes and dendritic cells by a soluble CD52 glycoprotein fragment. CD52 is a surface glycosylphosphatidylinositol GPI anchored glycoprotein present on most lymphoid cells initially recognised as the target of complement binding CAMPATH monoclonal antibodies used therapeutically to deplete lymphocytes Treumann et al. 1995 Xia et al. 1991 Hale 2001 . The mRNA transcript of the human CD52 gene is shown in SEQ ID NO 1 and the translated amino acid sequence is shown in SEQ ID NO 2. Mature CD52 tethered by its GPI anchor comprises only 12 amino acids and an asparagine N linked terminal carbohydrate.

Unless stated otherwise the terms soluble CD52 glycoprotein soluble CD52 soluble glycoprotein and variations thereof are used interchangeably herein.

Membrane anchored CD52 can be cleaved for example enzymatically to release a soluble peptide fragment comprising the amino acid sequence GQNDTSQTSSPS SEQ ID NO 3 . The soluble CD52 glycoprotein disclosed herein may comprise an amino acid sequence at least 60 identical to the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 3 or at least 60 identical to the amino acid sequence of other known orthologous CD52 soluble fragment sequences. Thus orthologous sequences of the soluble CD52 peptide fragment are encompassed by the present disclosure. Such sequences include but are not limited to the monkey sequence SQNATSQSSPS SEQ ID NO 4 the mouse sequence GQATTAASGTNKNSTSTKKTPLKS SEQ ID NO 5 the rat sequence GQNSTAVTTPANKAATTAAATTKAAATTATKTTTAVRKTPGKPPKA SEQ ID NO 6 the dog sequence GNSTTPRMTTKKVKSATPA SEQ ID NO 7 and other orthologous sequences readily identifiable from known CD52 polypeptide and polynucleotide sequences.

Percentage identity to any of the amino acid or polynucleotide sequences disclosed herein may be determined by methods known in the art. For example amino acid and polynucleotide sequences can be compared manually or by using computer based sequence comparison and identification tools that employ algorithms such as BLAST Basic Local Alignment Search Tool Altschul et al. 1993 see also www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov BLAST the Clustal method of alignment Higgins and Sharp 1989 and others wherein appropriate parameters for each specific sequence comparison can be selected as would be understood by a person skilled in the art. The amino acid sequence of the peptide portion of the glycoprotein disclosed herein can be at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 identical or at least 99 identical to any one or more of the amino acid sequences identified in SEQ ID NOs 3 4 5 6 or 7. For example the amino acid sequence of the peptide portion of the glycoprotein disclosed herein can be 100 identical to any one of the amino acid sequences identified in SEQ ID NOs 3 4 5 6 or 7.

Isolated soluble CD52 glycoprotein may be used to produce pharmaceutical compositions of the invention. The term isolated is used herein to define the isolation of the soluble CD52 glycoprotein so that it is present in a form suitable for application in a pharmaceutical composition. Thus the glycoprotein disclosed herein is isolated from other components of a host cell or fluid or expression system to the extent that is required for subsequent formulation of the glycoprotein as a pharmaceutical composition. The isolated glycoprotein is therefore provided in a form which is substantially free of other components of a host cell for example proteins which may hinder the pharmaceutical effect of the glycoprotein. Thus the isolated glycoprotein may be free or substantially free of material with which it is naturally associated such as other glycoproteins polypeptides or nucleic acids with which it is found in its natural environment or the environment in which it is prepared e.g. cell culture when such preparation is by recombinant DNA technology practiced in vitro or in vivo. Soluble glycoprotein can be isolated from a host cell or fluid or expression system by methods known in the art.

The term soluble is used herein to define a peptide or glycoprotein which is not bound to a cell membrane. The soluble peptide or glycoprotein may be able to move freely in any solvent or fluid such as a bodily fluid. For example the soluble peptide or glycoprotein may be able to circulate in blood.

The carbohydrate may be any carbohydrate moiety attached to the soluble CD52 peptide fragment. For example the carbohydrate may be any carbohydrate moiety found to be attached to the extracellular portion of the CD52 protein in a host. Thus the carbohydrate may be any carbohydrate capable of being attached to the extracellular portion of the CD52 protein by a glycosylation reaction known to take place in a host.

Carbohydrate moieties present on a naturally occurring CD52 glycoprotein can be identified by known methods such as those described in Schr ter et al. 1999 . Such carbohydrate moieties may be identified from CD52 glycoproteins present in any host cell expressing CD52 and particularly lymphocytes such as CD4 or CD8 T cells monocytes or genital tract cells such as sperm cells or epididymal duct cells. Thus the precise structure of the carbohydrate moiety can be determined by applying methods such as mass spectrometry e.g. Matrix assisted Laser Desorption Ionization Time of Flight Mass Spectrometry MALDI TOF Mono Q anion exchange chromatography high pH anion exchange chromatography HPAEC PAD methylation analysis endo galactosidase digestion and other methods. The N glycans may be separated from a naturally occurring CD52 glycoprotein using known cleavage enzymes such as peptide N4 N acetyl D glucosaminyl asparagines amidase F PNGase F from recombinant from obtainable from commercial suppliers such as Roche . The N glycans can be isolated for further characterisation using known chromatographic methods such as C8 reversed phase chromatography. In one example the carbohydrate may comprise one or more bi tri or tetra antennary sugars which may be terminally sialylated. For example the carbohydrate may comprise one or more tetra antennary sugars. The sugars may be branched or unbranched. The sugars may comprise a proximal fucose. Thus the carbohydrate may be fucosylated. The sugars may comprise one or more N acetyllactosamine repeats. Thus the sugars may comprise polylactosamine units. In addition the sugars may comprise a mannose core.

The carbohydrate may have any one or more of the structures described in Treumann et al. 1995 . Thus for example the carbohydrate may have any of the following structures 

Thus the carbohydrate may comprise one or more sialic acids. The one or more sialic acids may be located in any portion of the carbohydrate. For example the one or more sialic acids may be terminal sialic acids. In one particular example the carbohydrate may comprise terminal 2 6 sialic acids. Thus the carbohydrate may comprise one or more surface 2 6 sialyllactose groups. The one or more sialic acids may be attached to galactose in 1 4 linkage with N acetylglucosamine.

The present disclosure demonstrates that the soluble CD52 glycoprotein exerts its suppressive effect at least in part via binding to the sialic acid binding Ig like lectin 10 Siglec 10 a cell surface transmembrane receptor and immunoglobulin superfamily member bearing two cytoplasmic immunoreceptor tyrosine based inhibition motifs ITIMs Munday et al. 2001 Crocker et al. 2007 . Thus the soluble glycoprotein disclosed herein may be capable of binding to Siglec 10. For example the soluble glycoprotein disclosed herein may comprise a carbohydrate moiety capable of binding to Siglec 10. In one example the carbohydrate moiety comprises one or more surface 2 6 or 2 3 sialyllactose groups that are capable of binding to Siglec 10. Alternatively the carbohydrate moiety may comprise any other surface groups that are capable of binding to Siglec 10.

The soluble glycoprotein disclosed herein may be capable of binding to Siglec 10 derived from any species. For example the soluble glycoprotein disclosed herein may be capable of binding to Siglec 10 derived from any mammalian species. Preferably the soluble glycoprotein disclosed herein is capable of binding to human Siglec 10. The polypeptide sequence of human Siglec 10 is defined in Munday et al. 2001 in GenBank Accession No. AF310233.1 and in SEQ ID NO 69.

The soluble glycoprotein disclosed herein may be capable of effecting signalling via the Siglec 10 receptor. Thus the soluble glycoprotein disclosed herein may be capable of binding to Siglec 10 to any extent sufficient to effect signalling via the Siglec 10 receptor. Thus the precise level of binding to Siglec 10 can vary. Methods for determining whether a given glycoprotein is capable of binding to Siglec 10 and for determining whether a given glycoprotein is capable of effecting signalling via the Siglec 10 receptor are known in the art.

Further examples of the N linked CD52 carbohydrate which the glycoprotein disclosed herein may comprise are those derived or derivable from host lymphocyte CD52 glycoproteins or genital tract cell CD52 glycoproteins.

Due to the complex nature of many naturally occurring carbohydrate moieties known to be linked to the extracellular protein portion of human CD52 and the many variations in these structures that may arise from varying glycosylation patterns it will be understood that the precise nature of the carbohydrate moiety present in the glycoprotein disclosed herein may vary. As stated above methods are available to precisely identify particular carbohydrate moieties from naturally occurring CD52 glycoproteins. In addition a number of different carbohydrate moieties can be added to the soluble peptide fragment of CD52 by expressing CD52 under varying glycosylation conditions. For example the soluble glycoprotein disclosed herein may be expressed in and or isolated from host lymphocyte cells monocytes or host genital tract cells e.g. sperm cells or epididymal duct cells or seminal fluid and may therefore comprise different carbohydrate groups as a result. The inventors have shown that soluble CD52 present in human semen similarly to soluble CD52 released from lymphocytes such as Daudi B cells is capable of suppressing T cell function and or an immune response. Alternative host cells providing different glycosylation conditions may be selected for expression of soluble CD52 in order to provide alternative forms of carbohydrate on the soluble glycoprotein.

The carbohydrate may be attached to any one or more amino acid in the peptide which is capable of having a carbohydrate moiety attached thereto. For example the carbohydrate may be attached to one or more asparagine serine threonine tyrosine hydroxylysine hydroxyproline phosphoserine or tryptophan residues if present in the amino acid sequence. In one example the carbohydrate is attached to the asparagine N residue in a peptide portion having a sequence at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 identical or is 100 identical to the amino acid sequence set out in SEQ ID NO 3.

The present disclosure also provides variants mutants biologically active fragments modifications analogs and or derivatives of the glycoprotein disclosed herein. Such compounds can be identified by screening for compounds which mimic the structure and or function of the polypeptide disclosed herein using methods including any of the methods disclosed herein.

The glycoprotein disclosed herein is preferably capable of suppressing the activity function of immune cells including lymphocytes such as a T cell and monocytes. For example the glycoprotein disclosed herein is capable of suppressing one or more of effector T cell monocyte macrophage and dendritic cell function. Effector T cells monocytes macrophages and dendritic cells and their functions will be known to a person skilled in the art.

T cells can be readily identified by the presence of any of one or more T cell markers known in the art. The glycoprotein disclosed herein is capable of reducing T cell proliferation in response to antigen challenge and or capable of reducing T cell cytokine production such as production of any one or more of IFN IL 2 IL 10 IL 17 G CSF TNF and other cytokines known to be secreted by activated T cells . For example soluble CD52 is capable of reducing IFN production by T cells.

In another example soluble CD52 is capable of reducing IL 1 secretion by monocytes macrophages and dendritic cells.

Accordingly the glycoprotein disclosed herein is capable of reducing an immune response in a host. The inventors have shown that the glycoprotein disclosed herein is capable of reducing effector T cell function in response to challenge with any antigen. The suppressive function is not dependent on the particular antigen used in the challenge. Thus the glycoprotein disclosed herein is capable of reducing an immune response to any antigen. In one example the antigen is an autoantigen.

Any known methods of determining the suppression of T cell function and or an immune response can be used such as but not limited to those described in the examples herein. Thus the methods may comprise determining the effect of the glycoprotein disclosed herein on one or more of effector T cell monocyte macrophage and dendritic cell proliferation and or on the production of any one or more of IFN IL 2 IL 10 IL 17 G CSF TNF and other cytokines known to be secreted by activated T cells monocytes macrophages or dendritic cells.

The peptide portion of the CD52 glycoprotein disclosed herein may for example be conjugated to a second protein as a fusion protein. The second protein may be any protein capable of increasing the stability and or solubility of the glycoprotein of enhancing the process of making the glycoprotein by recombinant methods or of enhancing the therapeutic effect of the glycoprotein. Thus the second protein may capable of increasing the half life of the glycoprotein disclosed herein.

The second protein can be of any suitable length. In one embodiment the second protein may be relatively short. For example the second protein may consist of any of 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more amino acids. The second protein may comprise at least 1 at least 2 at least 3 at least 4 at least 5 at least 6 at least 7 at least 8 at least 9 or at least 10 amino acids. The second protein may also comprise more than 10 amino acids. For example the second protein may comprise at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 or at least 50 amino acids.

In one example the second protein is an antibody fragment. Suitable antibody fragments include any antibody fragment that is capable of activating the immune system. The antibody fragment may be a fragment crystallizable Fc region which can be a single polypeptide or any one or more heavy chain constant domains e.g. Cdomains 2 3 and or 4 from an Fc region. In one example the second protein is an Fc fragment.

In another example the second protein may be a purification tag. Many examples of purification tags are known and include without limitation a His tag T7 tag FLAG tag S tag HA tag c Myc tag DHFR a chitin binding domain a calmodulin binding domain a cellulose binding domain a Strep 2 tag a purification tag encoding eight amino acids that binds to Strep Tactin a specifically engineered streptavidin Schmidt and Skerra 2007 and others.

The second protein may increase the solubility of the expressed protein. Such proteins include without limitation NusA thioredoxin small ubiquitin like modifier SUMO ubiquitin and others known in the art.

The second protein may increase the solubility of the expressed protein as well as enhancing purification methods. Such proteins include without limitation GST MBP T7 gene 10 and others known in the art.

The purification tag may optionally be removed from the fusion protein after its production. Suitable methods of removing a purification tag from a fusion protein will vary depending on the particular purification tag used. Such methods will be generally known in the art.

The fusion protein disclosed herein may comprise one or more of any of the second proteins described above in any combination. Thus the fusion protein may comprise an antibody fragment such as an Fc and a purification tag such as a Strep 2 tag .

The present disclosure further provides isolated or recombinant polynucleotides encoding the protein component of the soluble CD52 glycoprotein or the fusion protein. The sequences of such polynucleotides are derivable from the amino acid sequences of the CD52 protein and soluble CD52 peptide fragment described herein and of the second protein comprised within the fusion protein. The polynucleotides disclosed herein may also encode a full length CD52 protein which may for example be a mature form thereof or a precursor thereof.

The term isolated polynucleotide is intended to mean a polynucleotide which has generally been separated from the polynucleotide sequences with which it is associated or linked in its native state. Preferably the isolated polynucleotide is at least 60 free more preferably at least 75 free and more preferably at least 90 free from other components with which it is naturally associated. Furthermore the term polynucleotide is used interchangeably herein with the terms nucleic acid molecule gene and mRNA .

The term recombinant in the context of a polynucleotide refers to the polynucleotide when present in a cell or in a cell free expression system in an altered amount compared to its native state. In one embodiment the cell is a cell that does not naturally comprise the polynucleotide. However the cell may be a cell which comprises a non endogenous polynucleotide resulting in an altered preferably increased amount of production of the encoded polypeptide. A recombinant polynucleotide of the invention includes polynucleotides which have not been separated from other components of the transgenic recombinant cell or cell free expression system in which it is present and polynucleotides produced in such cells or cell free systems which are subsequently purified away from at least some other components.

 Polynucleotide refers to an oligonucleotide a polynucleotide or any fragment thereof. It may be DNA or RNA of genomic or synthetic origin double stranded or single stranded and combined with carbohydrate lipids protein or other materials to perform a particular activity defined herein.

The polynucleotides disclosed herein may possess when compared to naturally occurring molecules such as genomic polynucleotides encoding CD52 or a soluble fragment thereof one or more mutations which are deletions insertions or substitutions of nucleotide residues. Mutants can be either naturally occurring that is to say isolated from a natural source or synthetic for example made by performing site directed mutagenesis or DNA shuffling techniques as broadly described by Harayama 1998 . It is thus apparent that polynucleotides of the invention can be either naturally occurring or recombinant.

The particular sequence of the polynucleotide can be determined from the peptide sequence. Due to the redundancy of the genetic code different sequences can be used to encode the same peptide. In addition the polynucleotide sequence may be specifically altered so as to enhance its expression in a particular host cell. Such a process is well known in the art as codon optimization . Thus the polynucleotide disclosed herein may be codon optimized to enhance expression in a host cell.

The polynucleotide disclosed herein can be inserted into a nucleotide vector in order to facilitate expression of the protein component of the glycoprotein or the fusion protein. Accordingly the present disclosure provides a vector comprising a polynucleotide encoding the protein component of the glycoprotein disclosed herein or the fusion protein disclosed herein. The vector can be either RNA or DNA either prokaryotic or eukaryotic and may be a transposon such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 792 294 a virus or a plasmid.

Preferably the polynucleotide encoding the protein component of the glycoprotein or the fusion protein is operably linked to a promoter which is capable of expressing the peptide under suitable conditions. Operably linked as used herein refers to a functional relationship between two or more nucleic acid e.g. DNA segments. Typically it refers to the functional relationship of a transcriptional regulatory element to a transcribed sequence. For example a promoter is operably linked to a coding sequence such as a polynucleotide defined herein if it stimulates or modulates the transcription of the coding sequence in an appropriate cell or cell free expression system. Generally promoter transcriptional regulatory elements that are operably linked to a transcribed sequence are physically contiguous to the transcribed sequence i.e. they are cis acting. However some transcriptional regulatory elements such as enhancers need not be physically contiguous or located in close proximity to the coding sequences whose transcription they enhance.

The vector is preferably an expression vector. As used herein an expression vector is a DNA or RNA vector that is capable of transforming a host cell and of effecting expression of a specified polynucleotide molecule. Preferably the expression vector is also capable of replicating within the host cell. Expression vectors can be either prokaryotic or eukaryotic and are typically viruses or plasmids. The expression vectors disclosed herein include any vectors that function i.e. direct gene expression in the recombinant cells disclosed herein including in animal cells or in a suitable cell free expression system.

In particular the expression vectors disclosed herein may contain regulatory sequences such as transcription control sequences translation control sequences origins of replication and other regulatory sequences that are compatible with the recombinant cell or cell free expression system and that control the expression of polynucleotide molecules disclosed herein. In particular the vectors disclosed herein may include transcription control sequences. Transcription control sequences are sequences which control the initiation elongation and termination of transcription. Particularly important transcription control sequences are those which control transcription initiation such as promoter enhancer operator and repressor sequences. Suitable transcription control sequences include any transcription control sequence that can function in at least one of the recombinant cells or cell free expression systems described herein. A variety of such transcription control sequences are known to those skilled in the art.

The vectors disclosed herein may also contain a secretory signals i.e. signal segment nucleic acid sequences to enable an expressed protein or peptide to be secreted from a cell that produces the peptide and or b fusion sequences which lead to the expression of peptides disclosed herein as fusion proteins. Examples of suitable signal segments include any signal segment capable of directing the secretion of a glycoprotein or fusion protein disclosed herein. The vectors may also include intervening and or untranslated sequences surrounding and or within the nucleic acid sequence s encoding the peptide disclosed herein.

The polynucleotide or vector can be expressed in a host cell or in a cell free expression system in order to produce the glycoprotein or fusion protein disclosed herein. Such expression may be performed for example in a mammalian cell a baculovirus expression system a fungal expression system which may be selected so as to permit glycosylation of the expressed protein .

The host cell can be any cell capable of producing the glycoprotein or fusion protein disclosed herein. Thus in one example the host cell is capable of permitting glycosylation of the protein component of the glycoprotein disclosed herein. Suitable host cells can be readily identified by the skilled artisan and include for example animal cells such as mammalian cells. In one example the host cell is a CHO cell a myeloma cell such as the mouse myeloma NS O or SP2 O cells or a HEK293T cell. In another example the host cell is a Daudi B lymphoblast cell Hu et al. 2009 .

In addition the polynucleotide or vector can be introduced into a host cell for administration to a subject. Thus the pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein may comprise a cell comprising the polynucleotide or vector disclosed herein. The cell may be an isolated cell. The cell is preferably a recombinant cell. Thus the cell is preferably transfected with a polynucleotide or vector disclosed herein. Any host cell suitable for administration to a subject may be used. In one example the cell may be a cell taken from the subject to be treated. Thus the cell may be an autologous cell. Accordingly one or more cells may be taken from a subject a polynucleotide or vector as disclosed herein may be introduced into the subject s cell and the cell may then be administered to the same subject. In one example the cell may be a lymphocyte such as a T cell such as a CD4 T cell. Methods for taking a suitable cell sample from a subject in this regard will be known in the art. Where the cell to be used is a lymphocyte the methods may include lymphocytapheresis. Other suitable host cells which need not necessarily be derived from the subject to be treated can equally be used. Expression of the polynucleotide or vector in the cell preferably results in the production and or secretion of the glycoprotein disclosed herein.

Transformation of a polynucleotide into a host cell can be accomplished by any suitable method known in the art. Transformation techniques include but are not limited to transfection electroporation microinjection lipofection and adsorption. A recombinant cell may remain unicellular or may grow into a tissue organ or a multicellular organism. Transformed polynucleotide molecules as disclosed herein can remain extrachromosomal or can integrate into one or more sites within a chromosome of the transformed i.e. recombinant cell in such a manner that their ability to be expressed is retained.

Suitable host cells to transform include any cell that can be transformed with a polynucleotide as disclosed herein. Host cells can be either endogenously i.e. naturally capable of producing polypeptides of the present invention or can be rendered capable of producing such polypeptides after being transformed with at least one polynucleotide molecule as disclosed herein.

Recombinant DNA technologies can be used to improve expression of a transformed polynucleotide molecule by manipulating for example the number of copies of the polynucleotide molecule within a host cell the efficiency with which those polynucleotide molecules are transcribed the efficiency with which the resultant transcripts are translated and the efficiency of post translational modifications. Recombinant techniques useful for increasing the expression of polynucleotide molecules as disclosed herein include but are not limited to operatively linking polynucleotide molecules to high copy number plasmids integration of the polynucleotide molecule into one or more host cell chromosomes addition of vector stability sequences to plasmids substitutions or modifications of transcription control signals e.g. promoters operators enhancers substitutions or modifications of translational control signals e.g. ribosome binding sites Shine Dalgarno sequences modification of polynucleotide molecules as disclosed herein to correspond to the codon usage of the host cell and the deletion of sequences that destabilize transcripts.

The host cell may be cultured under conditions effective to produce the glycoprotein or fusion protein. Once expressed in the host cell the glycoprotein or fusion protein can be isolated by conventional methods known in the art. Thus in one embodiment an isolated glycoprotein or fusion protein as described herein is produced by culturing a cell capable of expressing the glycoprotein or fusion protein under conditions effective to produce the glycoprotein or fusion protein and isolating the glycoprotein or fusion protein. Effective culture conditions include but are not limited to effective media bioreactor temperature pH and oxygen conditions that permit glycoprotein or fusion protein production and in particular that permit glycosylation. An effective medium refers to any medium in which a cell is cultured to produce a glycoprotein or fusion protein as disclosed herein. Such medium typically comprises an aqueous medium having assimilable carbon nitrogen and phosphate sources and appropriate salts minerals metals and other nutrients such as vitamins. Host cells can be cultured in conventional fermentation bioreactors shake flasks test tubes microtiter dishes and Petri plates. Culturing can be carried out at a temperature pH and oxygen content appropriate for a recombinant cell. Such culturing conditions are within the expertise of one of ordinary skill in the art.

Any cell free expression system suitable for the expression of the polynucleotide disclosed herein can also be used. Suitable cell free expression systems include those that permit glycosylation of the protein component of the glycoprotein or fusion protein. Such conditions can be determined by a person skilled in the art.

The glycoprotein disclosed herein may also be produced by inducing expression of CD52 in an isolated host cell and isolating soluble CD52 glycoprotein produced by the host cell. Thus the glycoprotein may be produced using a cell which naturally produces soluble CD52. Suitable cells will be identifiable to the person skilled in the art and include without limitation lymphocytes cells of the genital tract area such as sperm cells Daudi B lymphoblast cells Hu et al. 2009 K562 cells and others. Additional cell lines capable of naturally producing soluble CD52 can be identified by screening for soluble CD52 secretion. Thus cancer cells can be screened for their ability to secrete soluble CD52.

The methods of producing the glycoprotein disclosed herein from an isolated host cell which naturally produces soluble CD52 may comprise stimulating the host cell to produce higher levels of soluble CD52. This may be achieved for example by contacting the host cell with an antigen. Any antigen may be used. In one example the antigen is an autoantigen such as GAD65. In another example the antigen is tetanus toxoid.

The methods of producing the glycoprotein disclosed herein from an isolated host cell which naturally produces soluble CD52 may also comprise selecting a cell which naturally expresses CD52 and contacting the cell with an enzyme capable of cleaving the extracellular portion of membrane bound CD52 to release soluble CD52. Suitable enzymes are known in the art and include phospholipases such as phospholipase C.

The methods described herein can be performed on isolated cells or cell populations of a size sufficient to produce the desired quantity of soluble CD52.

The present disclosure also provides isolated cells and cell populations exhibiting high levels of expression of CD52. By high it is meant that the expression levels of CD52 are relatively high compared to CD52 expression levels in a given population of cells. The given population of cells may be for example a population of lymphocytes. The lymphocyte population may comprise Treg cells and non Treg cells. In addition the lymphocyte population may have been contacted with an antigen in order to stimulate lymphocyte activity. Alternatively the population of cells may be cells of the genital tract such as sperm cells. By contrast CD52cells exhibit relatively low levels of CD52 relative to a given population of cells.

In one example a cell may be determined to be a CD52cell if the level of expression of CD52 in that cell falls within the top 1 5 10 20 30 40 or 50 CD52 expression levels in a population of cells. Preferably a CD52cell has an expression level within the top 10 of CD52 expression observed in a population of cells.

In one example a cell may be determined to be a CD52cell if the level of expression of CD52 in that cell falls within the bottom 1 5 10 20 30 40 or 50 CD52 expression levels in a population of cells. Preferably a CD52cell has an expression level within the bottom 10 of CD52 expression observed in a population of cells.

The CD52cell may be isolated from the population of cells from which it is identified. Alternatively a population of CD52cells may be isolated from the initial cell population from which the CD52cells are identified. Thus the cell populations disclosed herein may be enriched for CD52cells.

The present disclosure therefore provides an isolated cell population comprising a plurality of CD52cells. The CD52cells may comprise at least 15 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 or 95 of the total enriched cell population.

The isolated CD52cells and populations of CD52cells disclosed herein are capable of producing the soluble CD52 glycoprotein disclosed herein.

These isolated cells and cell populations may be further defined by the presence of one or more additional cell markers. In one example the CD52cells are CD4 CD52cells. Alternatively the CD52cells are CD8 CD52cells. Additional markers that characterise these cells include any one or more of glucocorticoid induced tumor necrosis factor receptor related protein GITR CD127 Fas ligand FasL or CD95L sphingosine 1 phosphate receptor S1PR the GPI anchored glycoprotein CD24 CD25 FoxP3 CTLA 4 and other markers in any combination. The inventors have found that GITR CD127 Fas L S1PR and CD24 expression levels may be higher in CD52Treg cells compared to CD52cells. These markers can therefore be used to further define a CD52cell or a CD52cell population as described herein.

In addition the function of a given cell may be used to define a CD52cell or a CD52cell population as described herein. For example the ability of a cell expressing CD52 to reduce effector T cell function as described herein can be used to identify a CD52cell or a CD52cell population.

CD52cells or a CD52cell population as described herein may be cultured so as to produce medium comprising the soluble glycoprotein disclosed herein. Suitable culture conditions will be apparent to the person skilled in the art. The cultured cells may additionally be induced to increase their level of expression of soluble CD52 by any suitable method including by contacting the cells with antigen.

The present invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising cells preferably immune cells and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier wherein the cells have been treated ex vivo with any one or more of 

The cells of the composition may be for example whole blood or a cellular fraction thereof such as peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMCs .

Such ex vivo treated cells can be used in the present invention for example for treating or preventing a disease or condition mediated by effector T cell function inflammation or sepsis.

In one embodiment the cells are autologous in respect to the subject to which they will be administered. In another embodiment the cells are allogeneic.

The present disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising any one or more of the soluble CD52 glycoprotein fusion protein polynucleotide vector cell cell populations and cell medium described herein and any agent capable of increasing the level of expression of CD52 in a cell and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes a carrier suitable for use in administration to animals such as mammals and at least preferably humans. In one example the term pharmaceutically acceptable means approved by a regulatory agency of the Federal or a state government or listed in the U.S. Pharmacopeia or other generally recognized pharmacopeia for use in animals and more particularly in humans. The term carrier refers to a diluent excipient or vehicle with which the therapeutic is administered. Such pharmaceutical carriers can be sterile liquids such as water and oils including those of petroleum animal vegetable or synthetic origin such as peanut oil soybean oil mineral oil sesame oil and the like.

Therapeutic compositions can be prepared by mixing the desired compounds having the appropriate degree of purity with optional pharmaceutically acceptable carriers excipients or stabilizers Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 16edition Osol A. ed. 1980 in the form of lyophilized formulations aqueous solutions or aqueous suspensions. Acceptable carriers excipients or stabilizers are preferably nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed and include buffers such as Tris HEPES PIPES phosphate citrate and other organic acids antioxidants including ascorbic acid and methionine preservatives such as octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride hexamethonium chloride benzalkonium chloride benzethonium chloride phenol butyl or benzyl alcohol alkyl parabens such as methyl or propyl paraben catechol resorcinol cyclohexanol 3 pentanol and m cresol low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptides proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine histidine arginine or lysine monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose mannose or dextrins sugars such as sucrose mannitol trehalose or sorbitol salt forming counter ions such as sodium and or non ionic surfactants such as TWEEN PLURONICS or polyethylene glycol PEG . Additional examples of such carriers include ion exchangers alumina aluminum stearate lecithin serum proteins such as human serum albumin buffer substances such as glycine sorbic acid potassium sorbate partial glyceride mixtures of saturated vegetable fatty acids water salts or electrolytes such as protamine sulfate disodium hydrogen phosphate potassium hydrogen phosphate sodium chloride colloidal silica magnesium trisilicate polyvinyl pyrrolidone and cellulose based substances.

A pharmaceutical composition as disclosed herein is formulated to be compatible with its intended route of administration. Examples of routes of administration include parenteral e.g. intravenous intradermal subcutaneous intramuscular intraperitoneal intrathecal mucosal e.g. oral rectal intranasal buccal vaginal respiratory enteral e.g. orally such as by tablets capsules or drops rectally and transdermal topical e.g. epicutaneous inhalational intranasal eyedrops vaginal . Solutions or suspensions used for parenteral intradermal enteral or subcutaneous application can include the following components a sterile diluent such as water for injection saline solution fixed oils polyethylene glycols glycerine propylene glycol or other synthetic solvents antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl parabens antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid buffers such as acetates citrates or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. pH can be adjusted with acids or bases such as hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide. The parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampoules disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic.

Transdermal delivery is accomplished by exposing the therapeutic agent to a patient s skin for an extended period of time. Transdermal patches have the added advantage of providing controlled delivery of a pharmaceutical agent to the body see for example Transdermal and Topical. Drug Delivery From Theory to Clinical Practice Williams ed Pharmaceutical Press UK 2003 Transdermal Drug Delivery Developmental Issues and Research Initiatives Hadgraft and Guy eds. Marcel Dekker Inc. 1989 . For example a simple adhesive patch can be prepared from a backing material and an acrylate adhesive. The therapeutic agent and any enhancer are formulated into the adhesive casting solution and allowed to mix thoroughly. The solution is cast directly onto the backing material and the casting solvent is evaporated in an oven leaving an adhesive film. The release liner can be attached to complete the system.

Alternatively a polyurethane matrix patch can be employed to deliver the therapeutic agent. The layers of this patch comprise a backing a polyurethane drug enhancer matrix a membrane an adhesive and a release liner. The polyurethane matrix is prepared using a room temperature curing polyurethane prepolymer. Addition of water alcohol and complex to the prepolymer results in the formation of a tacky firm elastomer that can be directly cast only the backing material.

A further embodiment of this invention will utilize a hydrogel matrix patch. Typically the hydrogel matrix will comprise alcohol water drug and several hydrophilic polymers. This hydrogel matrix can be incorporated into a transdermal patch between the backing and the adhesive layer.

For passive delivery systems the rate of release is typically controlled by a membrane placed between the reservoir and the skin by diffusion from a monolithic device or by the skin itself serving as a rate controlling barrier in the delivery system see U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 816 258 4 927 408 4 904 475 4 588 580 4 788 062 . The rate of delivery will be dependent in part upon the nature of the membrane. For example the rate of delivery across membranes within the body is generally higher than across dermal barriers.

Suitable permeable membrane materials may be selected based on the desired degree of permeability the nature of the complex and the mechanical considerations related to constructing the device. Exemplary permeable membrane materials include a wide variety of natural and synthetic polymers such as polydimethylsiloxanes silicone rubbers ethylenevinylacetate copolymer EVA polyurethanes polyurethane polyether copolymers polyethylenes polyamides polyvinylchlorides PVC polypropylenes polycarbonates polytetrafluoroethylenes PTFE cellulosic materials e.g. cellulose triacetate and cellulose nitrate acetate and hydrogels e.g. 2 hydroxyethylmethacrylate HEMA .

Other items may be contained in the device such as other conventional components of therapeutic products depending upon the desired device characteristics. For example the compositions according to the invention may also include one or more preservatives or bacteriostatic agents e.g. methyl hydroxybenzoate propyl hydroxybenzoate chlorocresol benzalkonium chlorides and the like. These pharmaceutical compositions also can contain other active ingredients such as antimicrobial agents particularly antibiotics anesthetics analgesics and antipruritic agents.

Another embodiment of this invention provides for the topical delivery of pharmaceutical composition. This treatment regimen is suitable either for the systemic administration of the pharmaceutical agent or for localized therapy i.e. directly to pathological or diseased tissue. Topical preparations can be prepared by combining the pharmaceutical agent chemical modifier complex with conventional pharmaceutical diluents and carriers commonly used in topical dry liquid cream and aerosol formulations. Ointment and creams may for example be formulated with an aqueous or oily base with the addition of suitable thickening and or gelling agents. Such bases may include water and or an oil such as liquid paraffin or a vegetable oil such as peanut oil or castor oil. Thickening agents which may be used according to the nature of the base include soft paraffin aluminum stearate cetostearyl alcohol propylene glycol polyethylene glycols woolfat hydrogenated lanolin beeswax and the like. Lotions may be formulated with an aqueous or oily base and will in general also include one or more of the following stabilizing agents emulsifying agents dispersing agents suspending agents thickening agents coloring agents perfumes and the like. Powders may be formed with the aid of any suitable powder base e.g. talc lactose starch and the like. Drops may be formulated with an aqueous base or non aqueous base also comprising one or more dispersing agents suspending agents solubilizing agents and the like.

Dosage forms for the topical administration include powders sprays ointments pastes creams lotions gels solutions patches and inhalants. The active compound may be mixed under sterile conditions with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and with any preservatives buffers or propellants which may be required. The ointments pastes creams and gels also may contain excipients such as animal and vegetable fats oils waxes paraffins starch tragacanth cellulose derivatives polyethylene glycols silicones bentonites talc and zinc oxide or mixtures thereof. Powders and sprays also can contain excipients such as lactose talc aluminum hydroxide calcium silicates and polyamide powder or mixtures of these substances. Sprays can additionally contain customary propellants such as chlorofluorohydrocarbons and volatile unsubstituted hydrocarbons such as butane and propane.

Mucosal for example gastrointestinal sublingual buccal nasal pulmonary vaginal corneal and ocular membranes drug delivery provides for an efficient entry of active substances to systemic circulation and reduce immediate metabolism by the liver and intestinal wall flora see for example Lee 2001 Song et al. 2004 Hearnden et al. 2012 Transmucosal drug dosage forms e.g. tablet suppository ointment gel salves creams pessary membrane and powder are typically held in contact with the mucosal membrane and disintegrate and or dissolve rapidly to allow immediate systemic absorption.

For delivery to the buccal or sublingual membranes typically an oral formulation such as a lozenge tablet or capsule will be used. The method of manufacture of these formulations are known in the art including but not limited to the addition of the pharmaceutical agent chemical modifier complex to a pre manufactured tablet cold compression of an inert filler a binder and either a pharmaceutical agent chemical modifier complex or a substance containing the complex as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 806 356 and encapsulation.

Oral compositions generally include an inert diluent or an edible carrier. They can be enclosed in gelatin capsules or compressed into tablets. For the purpose of oral therapeutic administration the active compound is incorporated with excipients and used in the form of tablets troches or capsules. Oral compositions are also prepared using a fluid carrier for use as a mouthwash wherein the compound in the fluid carrier is applied orally and swished and expectorated or swallowed. Pharmaceutically compatible binding agents and or adjuvant materials can be included as part of the composition. The tablets pills capsules troches and the like can contain any of the following ingredients or compounds of a similar nature a binder such as microcrystalline cellulose gum tragacanth or gelatin an excipient such as starch or lactose a disintegrating agent such as alginic acid Primogel or corn starch a lubricant such as magnesium stearate or Sterotes a glidant such as colloidal silicon dioxide a sweetening agent such as sucrose or saccharin or a flavoring agent such as peppermint methyl salicylate or orange flavoring.

Another oral formulation is one that can be applied with an adhesive such as the cellulose derivative hydroxypropyl cellulose to the oral mucosa for example as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 940 587. This buccal adhesive formulation when applied to the buccal mucosa allows for controlled release of the pharmaceutical agent chemical modifier complex into the mouth and through the buccal mucosa.

For delivery to the nasal and or pulmonary membranes typically an aerosol formulation will be employed. The term aerosol includes any gas borne suspended phase of the pharmaceutical agent chemical modifier complex which is capable of being inhaled into the bronchioles or nasal passages. Specifically aerosol includes a gas borne suspension of droplets of the compounds of the instant invention as may be produced in a metered dose inhaler or nebulizer or in a mist sprayer. Aerosol also includes a dry powder composition of the pharmaceutical agent chemical modifier complex suspended in air or other carrier gas which may be delivered by inhalation from an inhaler device.

For mucosal or transdermal administration penetrants appropriate to the barrier to be permeated can be used in the formulation. Such penetrants are generally known in the art and include for example for mucosal administration detergents bile salts and fusidic acid derivatives.

Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions where water soluble or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersion. For intravenous administration suitable carriers include physiological saline bacteriostatic water Cremophor BASF Parsippany N.J. or phosphate buffered saline PBS . In all cases the composition must be sterile and should be fluid to the extent that easy syringability exists. It must be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and must be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier is a solvent or dispersion medium containing for example water ethanol polyol e.g. glycerol propylene glycol and liquid polyetheylene glycol and the like and suitable mixtures thereof. The proper fluidity is maintained for example by the use of a coating such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants. Prevention of the action of microorganisms may be achieved by various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol ascorbic acid and the like. In many cases it is preferable to include isotonic agents for example sugars polyalcohols such as manitol sorbitol sodium chloride in the composition. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions is brought about by including in the composition an agent which delays absorption for example aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

Sterile injectable solutions may be prepared by incorporating the active compound in the required amount in an appropriate solvent with one or a combination of ingredients enumerated above as required followed by filtered sterilization. Generally dispersions are prepared by incorporating the active compound into a sterile vehicle which contains a basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum drying and freeze drying which yields a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile filtered solution thereof.

A pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle is understood to designate a compound or a combination of compounds entering into a pharmaceutical composition which does not cause side effects and which makes it possible for example to facilitate the administration of the active compound to increase its life and or its efficacy in the body to increase its solubility in solution or alternatively to enhance its preservation. These pharmaceutically acceptable vehicles are well known and will be adapted by persons skilled in the art according to the nature and the mode of administration of the active compound chosen.

Pharmaceutical compositions to be used for in vivo administration should be sterile. This is readily accomplished by filtration through sterile filtration membranes prior to or following lyophilization and reconstitution. The composition may be stored in lyophilized form or in solution if administered systemically. If in lyophilized form it is typically formulated in combination with other ingredients for reconstitution with an appropriate diluent at the time for use. An example of a liquid formulation is a sterile clear colourless unpreserved solution filled in a single dose vial for subcutaneous injection.

Pharmaceutical compositions generally are placed into a container having a sterile access port for example an intravenous solution bag or vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle. The compositions are preferably administered parenterally for example as intravenous injections or infusions or administered into a body cavity.

The pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein may further comprise an additional therapeutic agent known to suppress effector T cell function and or an immune response.

In another embodiment the composition further comprises an autoantigen. Examples of autoantigens useful in compositions of the invention include but are not limited to those listed in Table 1 Lernmark 2001 .

The soluble CD52 glycoprotein fusion protein polynucleotide vector cell cell populations cell medium and pharmaceutical composition described herein and any agent capable of increasing the level of expression of CD52 in a cell may be used to suppress effector T cell function inflammation or sepsis. Thus the soluble CD52 glycoprotein fusion protein polynucleotide vector cell cell populations cell medium and pharmaceutical composition described herein and any agent capable of increasing the level of expression of CD52 in a cell may be used to treat any disease or condition mediated by effector T cells involving inflammation or sepsis.

In one example the disease or condition mediated by effector T cells may be an autoimmune disease allograft rejection a graft versus host reaction or an allergic disease. The term autoimmune disease refers to any disease in which the body produces an immunogenic i.e. immune system response to some constituent of its own tissue. Autoimmune diseases can be classified into those in which predominantly one organ is affected eg hemolytic anemia and anti immune thyroiditis and those in which the autoimmune disease process is diffused through many tissues eg systemic lupus erythematosus . The autoimmune disease may be but is not limited to any one or more of insulin dependent diabetes mellitus or type I diabetes insulin autoimmune syndrome rheumatoid arthritis psoriatic arthritis chronic lyme arthritis lupus multiple sclerosis inflammatory bowel disease including Crohn s disease ulcerative colitis celiac disease autoimmune thyroid disease autoimmune myocarditis autoimmune hepatitis pemphigus anti tubular basement membrane disease kidney familial dilated cardiomyopathy Goodpasture s syndrome Sjogren s syndrome myasthenia gravis polyendocrine failure vitiligo peripheral neuropathy autoimmune polyglandular syndrome type I acute glomerulonephritis adult onset idiopathic hypoparathyroidism AOIH alopecia totalis Hashimoto s thyroiditis Graves disease Addison s disease chronic beryllium syndrome ankylosing spondylitis juvenile dermatomyositis polychondritis scleroderma regional enteritis distal ileitis granulomatous enteritis regional ileitis and terminal ileitis amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ankylosing spondylitis autoimmune aplastic anemia autoimmune hemolytic anemia Behcet s disease Celiac disease chronic active hepatitis CREST syndrome dermatomyositis dilated cardiomyopathy eosinophilia myalgia syndrome epidermolisis bullosa acquisita EBA giant cell arteritis Goodpasture s syndrome Guillain Barr syndrome hemochromatosis Henoch Schonlein purpura idiopathic IgA nephropathy insulin autoimmune syndrome juvenile rheumatoid arthritis Lambert Eaton syndrome linear IgA dermatosis myocarditis narcolepsy necrotizing vasculitis neonatal lupus syndrome NLE nephrotic syndrome pemphigoid pemphigus polymyositis primary sclerosing cholangitis psoriasis rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis RPGN Reiter s syndrome stiff man syndrome inflammatory bowel disease osteoarthritis thyroiditis and others. In one example the autoimmune disease is type 1 diabetes. In another example the autoimmune disease is rheumatoid arthritis. In another example the condition is an allograft rejection or a graft versus host reaction. Thus the methods disclosed herein may comprise administering any one or more of the soluble CD 52 glycoprotein fusion protein polynucleotide vector cell cell populations cell medium agent and pharmaceutical composition to a transplant recipient.

The allergic disease may be but is not limited to any one or more of a food allergy airborne allergy house dust mite allergy cat allergy or bee venom allergy or other allergy.

Inflammation may arise as a response to an injury or abnormal stimulation caused by a physical chemical or biologic agent. An inflammation reaction may include the local reactions and resulting morphologic changes destruction or removal of injurious material such as an infective organism and responses that lead to repair and healing.

Inflammation occurs in inflammatory disorders. The term inflammatory when used in reference to a disorder refers to a pathological process which is caused by resulting from or resulting in inflammation that is inappropriate or which does not resolve in the normal manner. Inflammatory disorders may be systemic or localized to particular tissues or organs. Inflammation is known to occur in many disorders some of which are autoimmune diseases which include but are not limited to Systemic Inflammatory Response SIRS Alzheimer s Disease and associated conditions and symptoms including chronic neuroinflammation glial activation increased microglia neuritic plaque formation Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis ALS arthritis and associated conditions and symptoms including but not limited to acute joint inflammation antigen induced arthritis arthritis associated with chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis collagen induced arthritis juvenile arthritis rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis prognosis and streptococcus induced arthritis spondyloarthropathies and gouty arthritis asthma and associated conditions and symptoms including bronchial asthma chronic obstructive airway disease chronic obstructive pulmonary disease juvenile asthma and occupational asthma cardiovascular diseases and associated conditions and symptoms including atherosclerosis autoimmune myocarditis chronic cardiac hypoxia congestive heart failure coronary artery disease cardiomyopathy and cardiac cell dysfunction including aortic smooth muscle cell activation cardiac cell apoptosis and immunomodulation of cardiac cell function diabetes and associated conditions including autoimmune diabetes insulin dependent Type 1 diabetes diabetic periodontitis diabetic retinopathy and diabetic nephropathy gastrointestinal inflammations and related conditions and symptoms including celiac disease associated osteopenia chronic colitis Crohn s disease inflammatory bowel disease and ulcerative colitis gastric ulcers hepatic inflammations such as viral and other types of hepatitis cholesterol gallstones and hepatic fibrosis HIV infection and associated conditions including degenerative responses neurodegenerative responses and HIV associated Hodgkin s Disease Kawasaki s Syndrome and associated diseases and conditions including mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome cervical lymphadenopathy coronary artery lesions edema fever increased leukocytes mild anemia skin peeling rash conjunctiva redness thrombocytosis nephropathies and associated diseases and conditions including diabetic nephropathy endstage renal disease acute and chronic glomerulonephritis acute and chronic interstitial nephritis lupus nephritis Goodpasture s syndrome hemodialysis survival and renal ischemic reperfusion injury neurodegenerative diseases or neuropathological conditions and associated diseases and conditions including acute neurodegeneration induction of IL I in aging and neurodegenerative disease IL I induced plasticity of hypothalamic neurons and chronic stress hyperresponsiveness myelopathy ophthalmopathies and associated diseases and conditions including diabetic retinopathy Graves ophthalmopathy inflammation associated with corneal injury or infection including corneal ulceration and uveitis osteoporosis and associated diseases and conditions including alveolar femoral radial vertebral or wrist bone loss or fracture incidence postmenopausal bone loss fracture incidence or rate of bone loss otitis media adult or paediatric pancreatitis or pancreatic acinitis periodontal disease and associated diseases and conditions including adult early onset and diabetic pulmonary diseases including chronic lung disease chronic sinusitis hyaline membrane disease hypoxia and pulmonary disease in SIDS restenosis of coronary or other vascular grafts rheumatism including rheumatoid arthritis rheumatic Aschoff bodies rheumatic diseases and rheumatic myocarditis thyroiditis including chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis urinary tract infections including chronic prostatitis chronic pelvic pain syndrome and urolithiasis immunological disorders including autoimmune diseases such as alopecia aerata autoimmune myocarditis Graves disease Graves ophthalmopathy lichen sclerosis multiple sclerosis psoriasis systemic lupus erythematosus systemic sclerosis thyroid diseases e.g. goitre and struma lymphomatosa Hashimoto s thyroiditis lymphadenoid goitre lung injury acute hemorrhagic lung injury Goodpasture s syndrome acute ischemic reperfusion myocardial dysfunction caused by occupational and environmental pollutants e.g. susceptibility to toxic oil syndrome silicosis radiation trauma and efficiency of wound healing responses e.g. burn or thermal wounds chronic wounds surgical wounds and spinal cord injuries septicaemia acute phase response e.g. febrile response general inflammatory response acute respiratory distress response acute systemic inflammatory response wound healing adhesion immuno inflammatory response neuroendocrine response fever development and resistance acute phase response stress response disease susceptibility repetitive motion stress tennis elbow and pain management and response.

The methods of treatment may comprise administering a therapeutically effective amount of any one or more of the soluble CD52 glycoprotein fusion protein polynucleotide vector cell cell populations cell medium or pharmaceutical composition described herein or any agent capable of increasing the level of expression of CD52 in a cell to a subject in need thereof.

The therapeutically effective amount may be determined by a clinician and may vary from one patient to another depending on factors such as age weight gender and other factors.

Based on the inventors finding that soluble CD52 is a mediator of Treg function the present disclosure also provides methods of determining a subject s susceptibility to any disease or condition mediated by effector T cells inflammation or sepsis as described herein. The diagnostic methods may be based on the detection of any one or more of the level of soluble CD52 the frequency of CD52cells and the function of CD52cells in a sample taken from the subject.

The level of soluble CD52 may be determined by any suitable method known in the art. For example the level of soluble CD52 may be determined by immunoassay using antibodies that bind to soluble CD52. Suitable antibodies include the humanized rat monoclonal antibody CAMPATH 1G fluorescent labelled mouse monoclonal antibodies to human CD52 such as CF1D12 rabbit polyclonal antibody to CD52 Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. USA and others.

The frequency of CD52cells may be detected for example by detecting the level of cell membrane bound CD52 in the sample by detecting the level of expression of CD52 protein in the sample and or by detecting the level of expression of CD52 mRNA in the sample.

The function of CD52cells may be determined using any suitable method including any of the methods disclosed herein.

The diagnostic methods may be performed on any suitable sample taken from the subject. In one example the sample is taken from a mammalian subject such as a human subject and may originate from a number of sources including for example peripheral blood mononuclear cells PMBC leukopheresis or apheresis blood product bone marrow cord blood liver thymus tissue biopsy tumour lymph node tissue gut associated lymphoid tissue mucosa associated lymph node tissue spleen tissue or any other lymphoid tissue or from any disease site including the pancreas. In a preferred embodiment the cell sample originates from PBMC from a blood sample obtained from the peripheral blood of a subject.

The diagnostic methods may comprise detecting the level of any one or more of soluble CD52 the frequency of CD52cells and the function of CD52cells in a sample comprising PMBCs which have been contacted with an antigen. Thus the methods may comprise a step of contacting the sample with an antigen. In one example the antigen may be an autoantigen.

In one particular application of the diagnostic methods disclosed herein the level of soluble CD52 the frequency of CD52cells and or the function of CD52cells may be determined in order to identify a subject s suitability for entry into a drug screening trial. Thus if a subject exhibits a lower level of soluble CD52 glycoprotein a lower frequency of CD52cells and or a decreased function of CD52cells that subject may be identified as particularly suitable for inclusion in a screening trial for a drug intended to be used in the treatment of any disease or condition mediated by effector T cells inflammation or sepsis as described herein. In one example the screen may be performed in order to identify putative anti diabetic drugs in particular anti type I diabetes drugs .

The diagnostic methods described herein may further comprise a step of determining a reference level of soluble CD52 of the frequency of CD52cells and or of the function of CD52cells from a sample taken from one or more healthy subjects. Alternatively the reference level may be predetermined. Comparing the level of soluble CD52 frequency of CD52cells and or function of CD52cells in a sample taken from a subject to the reference level can indicate the subject s susceptibility to any disease or condition mediated by effector T cells inflammation or sepsis as described herein. For example if the level of soluble CD52 frequency of CD52cells and or function of CD52cells in the sample taken from a subject is lower than the reference level that subject may be deemed to be more susceptible to developing a disease or condition mediated by effector T cells inflammation or sepsis as described herein. A greater difference between the sample level and the reference level may indicate a greater susceptibility of the subject to developing a disease or condition mediated by effector T cells inflammation or sepsis as described herein. It will be appreciated that the exact values indicating an increased risk of a subject developing a disease or condition mediated by effector T cells inflammation or sepsis will vary depending on a number of factors including the particular disease or condition being diagnosed the sample used for the diagnosis the population of healthy individuals used to prepare the reference level and other factors as will be understood by a person skilled in the art.

The present disclosure also provides a method of screening for an agent capable of suppressing effector. T cell function and or an immune response the method comprising contacting a cell or cell population described herein for example a CD52cell or cell population with a test agent and subsequently detecting the level of soluble CD52 the frequency of CD52cells and or the function of CD52cells wherein a higher level of soluble CD52 glycoprotein a higher frequency of CD52cells and or an enhanced function of CD52cells after contact with the test agent indicates that the test agent may be potentially suitable for use as an agent capable of suppressing effector T cell function and or an immune response.

In another embodiment the present disclosure also provides a method of identifying an agent capable of mimicking the effector T cell suppressing and or immune system suppressing function of a soluble CD52 glycoprotein the method comprising contacting a cell or cell population described herein for example a CD52cell or cell population with a test agent and subsequently detecting the level of soluble CD52 the frequency of CD52cells and or the function of CD52cells wherein a lower level of soluble CD52 glycoprotein a lower frequency of CD52cells and or a reduced function of CD52cells after contact with the test agent indicates that the test agent is capable of mimicking the effector T cell suppressing and or immune system suppressing function of a soluble CD52 glycoprotein.

Venous blood drawn into sodium heparin tubes was obtained with informed consent and Human Research Ethics Committee approval from 5 healthy young adults 3 males 2 females and a young adult male at risk for TID all known to have blood T cell responses to GAD65. All donors had been vaccinated to tetanus toxoid. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMCs were isolated on Ficoll Hypaque Amersham Pharmacia Biotech AB Uppsala Sweden washed twice in human tonicity phosphate buffered saline PBS and resuspended in Iscove s modified Dulbecco s medium Gibco Melbourne Australia containing 5 pooled heat inactivated human serum 100 mM non essential amino acids 2 mM glutamine and 5 10M 2 mercaptoethanol complete Iscove s modified Dulbecco s medium IMDM .

Reagents and suppliers were as follows fluorescent labelled mouse monoclonal antibodies to human CD52 clone CF1D12 and CD24 clone SN3 Caltag FoxP3 GITR ICOS CD25 CD127 and human Siglec 10 clone 5G6 Biolegend San Diego Calif. USA mouse IgG3 Caltag rabbit polyclonal antibody to CD52 Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. USA HRP conjugated horse anti rabbit IgG and anti mouse IgG Cell Signaling Arundal QLD Australia ECL reagent GE Healthcare Rydalmere NSW Australia humanized rat monoclonal antibody CAMPATH 1G to CD52 Bayer Healthcare Pymble NSW Australia mouse monoclonal antibodies to human IFN Mabtech Sydney NSW Australia and IL 10Ra clone 37607 goat anti human TGF RII and goat affinity purified antibody to human Siglec 10 and recombinant human Siglec 10 Fc R D Systems Minneapolis Minn. IL 2 NCIBRB Preclinical Repository Rockville Md. synthetic human CD52 peptide GL Biochem Shanghai indomethacin nitro L arginine methylester 1 methyl dl tryptophan SCH58261 adenosine A2A receptor antagonist Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. USA carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester CFSE Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. USA neuraminidase type V Sigma Aldrich Castle Hill Australia H thymidine ICN Sydney Australia 0.4 m Corning Costar transwells Crown Scientific Minto NSW Australia Protein G and A Sepharose WEHI Monoclonal Lab Bundoora Victoria Australia phospholipase C U7322 and D 1 10 phenanthroline inhibitors Sigma Aldrich Pty. Ltd. NSW Australia phospholipase C Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. USA PNGase F New England Biolabs Ipswich Mass. USA Strep Tactin Sepharose IBA GmbH Gottingen Germany . Tetanus toxoid TT was generously provided by CSL Parkville Victoria Australia . Recombinant GAD65 produced in Baculovirus and purified as described Bach et al. 1997 was purchased from Dr Peter Van Ended Hopital Necker Paris. The endotoxin concentration of the GAD65 stock solution measured by Limulus lysate assay BioWhittaker Walkerville Md. USA was 1.2 EU mg ml. TT and GAD65 were used at concentrations of 10 Lyons flocculating units LFU ml and 5 g ml respectively unless otherwise stated. Cytokines and soluble IL 2 receptor CD25 were assayed in media by Milliplex MAP bead arrays Abacus ALS Brisbane Australia .

Replicates were expressed as mean sem. Significance between groups was determined by unpaired 2 tail Student t test using GraphPad Prism version 3.0cx for Macintosh GraphPad Software Inc. San Diego Calif. .

GAD65 specific CD4 T cell clones previously generated and screened for GAD65 specific suppressor function were thawed and cultured as described Dromey et al. 2011 . Initially suppressor and non suppressor clones were screened for surface markers against an array of solid phase antibodies Medsaic Ptd Ltd Sydney Australia Belov et al. 2003 . Clones 1 10 were taken directly from culture and analysed resting or after stimulation for 24 hrs with plate bound anti CD3 5 g ml . For phenotyping by flow cytometry cells were stained on ice with the appropriate concentrations of labelled antibodies. Staining for intracellular FoxP3 and intracellular CTLA 4 was combined.

Screening pairs of autologous suppressor and non suppressor clones for differences in surface phenotype using a CD antibody array revealed that activated suppressor clones were consistently found to have higher expression of CD52 a result which was confirmed by flow cytometry see . Thus CD52 was identified as a potential marker of Treg cells.

PBMCs stained with carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester CFSE were cultured in IMDM in 96 well round bottom plates without or with GAD65 or TT at 2 10in 200 l in replicates of six. After 7 days replicates were pooled washed in 0.1 BSA PBS and stained on ice with anti human CD4 PE PECy7 or APC and CD52 PE clone CF1D12 antibodies. Viable propidium iodide negative CFSECD4 cells that had undergone division in response to GAD65 were sorted in a FACSAria BD Biosciences North Ryde NSW Australia into fractions with the highest to the lowest CD52 expression and single cells cloned as described Dromey et al. 2011 . Subsequently in response to GAD65 or TT CD52and CD52populations corresponding respectively to the upper 10 and lower 10 of CD52 expression on undivided CD4 cells were sorted for further study. These cut offs were chosen because the majority of GAD65 specific suppressor clones generated were from the upper 10 of CD52 cells see Table 1 .

Using PBMCs from the same donor over 4 consecutive weeks the inter assay coefficient of variation of the CD52to CD52ratio in response to GAD65 was 21.8 . Resting PBMCs were sorted into CD4 CD52and CD52cells and also collected unsorted as a control. In separate experiments prior to CFSE labelling PBMCs were depleted of CD25 cells by AutoMACS selection Miltenyi Biotec isotype matched monoclonal antibodies were used for control depletions .

The function of GAD65 or TT activated CD52and CD52CD4 cells was analysed in two ways. First sorted CD52or CD52cells were co cultured with TT activated CD4 T cells at a 1 1 ratio 1 10 well in 6 wells of a 96 well plate. Each well also contained 5 10irradiated autologous PBMCs as APCs and TT to stimulate proliferation of the autologous TT activated CD4 T cells. GAD65 was added to 3 of the 6 wells to re stimulate sorted cells. As a control irradiated PBMCs were also cultured with or without GAD65. After 48 hrs H thymidine 37 kBq was added to each well and the cells harvested 16 hrs later. Second sorted CD52or CD52CD4 cells 5 20 000 each were cultured alone or in combination at a 1 1 ratio in 6 replicate wells of a 96 well ELISpot plate Millipore PVDF MultiScreen HTS containing pre bound anti IFN antibody. Each well also contained four times the number of irradiated autologous PBMCs as APCs. GAD65 or TT was added to 3 of the 6 wells to re stimulate sorted cells. After 24 hrs cells were removed by washing and spots developed by incubation with biotinylated second antibody followed by streptavidin alkaline phosphatase and BCIP NBT colour reagent. Results were expressed as IFN spots 5 000 CD4 cells.

A majority 22 29 76 of GAD65 specific suppressor clones was found to be derived from GAD65 activated CD4 T cells with the highest CD52 expression upper 10 Table 1 . Thus suppressor clones appeared to be derived from primary blood CD52CD4 T cells rather than being an artefact of the cloning conditions.

As the majority of GAD65 specific CD4 suppressor clones were derived from divided cells with CD52 expression corresponding to the upper 10 on undivided CD4 cells this threshold could be used to define a CD52CD4 population after activation. When re activated with GAD65 sorted CD52but not CD52CD4cells suppressed proliferation of autologous TT specific CD4 T cells . To ensure that suppression was specific for CD52cells and not due to the method of their selection GAD65 activated CD4 cells were sorted for high expression of two other GPI anchored glycoproteins CD24 and CD59 as well as for CD62L HLA DR CD80 and ICOS but these populations did not suppress proliferation of TT specific T cells data not shown .

Functional differences between sorted CD52and CD52CD4 T cells after reactivation with GAD65 were also demonstrated by ELISpot assay. A lower proportion of CD52than CD52cells secreted IFN and addition of CD52to CD52cells reduced the number of IFN secreting cells in response to re activation compare CD52 CD52 p

PBMCs were labelled with anti CD25a antibody and depleted of CD25cells on an AutoMACS column 84 compared to isotype control antibody depletion . Cells were then labelled with CFSE and incubated with TT for 7 days before being sorted into CD52and CD52cells reactivated by TT and analysed by ELISpot assay.

Following depletion of CD25cells the proportion of divided CD52CD4 cells in response to TT increased 18.1 versus 11.8 with control depletion but their suppressor function after reactivation with TT remained unchanged . Thus suppressor CD52CD4 cells do not appear to be derived from the population of CD4 CD25 T cells.

Flow cytometric expression of A CD25 B FoxP3 C surface and D intracellular CTLA 4 E GITR F CD127 G CD24 and II CD59 on divided CD52 black line and CD52 grey line CD4 T cells following incubation of PBMCs with TT for 7 days. Staining by isotype control antibody is shown as grey fill. Results are representative of 5 individuals.

CD4 CD25 Treg cells have high expression of CD25 FoxP3 CTLA 4 and glucocorticoid induced tumor necrosis factor receptor related protein GITR Sakaguchi et al. 2008 Shevach 2006 and low expression of CD127 Seddiki et al. 2006 Liu et al. 2006 . In contrast except for higher expression of GITR CD52CD4 T cells had similar expression of CD25 FoxP3 and CTLA 4 and consistently higher expression of CD127 compared to CD52CD4 T cells . Expression of the GPI anchored glycoprotein CD24 structurally related to CD52 Tone et al. 1999 was higher on CD52CD4 T cells but this was not the case for GPI anchored CD59 or CD73 or for CD103 CD40 P7 integrin ICOS and PD 1 data not shown . Thus CD52CD4T cells are a novel population of suppressor cells which are not characterized by expression of markers used to define human CD4 CD25 Treg cells and which are detected in the context of activation by antigen implying that they contribute to T cell homeostasis during T cell division.

The expression of the CD52 gene and of genes for proteins found to have increased expression on CD52CD4 T cells was investigated by quantitative real time RT PCR. CFSE labelled CD52and CD52CD4 T cells were sorted from three individuals 7 days after activation by GAD65. Total RNA was extracted from cells with the RNAeasy Mini Kit Qiagen Melbourne Australia treated with RNase free DNase Qiagen and quantified with the Agilent 2100 Bioanalyser. cDNA was reverse transcribed from 10 ng RNA reaction. Primers for PCR designed with PrimerExpress software and synthesized by Sigma Aldrich Castle Hill NSW Australia were 

Power SYBR Green PCR Master Mix was from Applied Biosystems. Triplicate samples of cDNA were subjected to 40 cycles of amplification in an ABI Prism 7900 instrument according to the manufacturer s protocol. mRNA expression normalized to endogenous actin expression was quantified by the comparative critical threshold Ct method according to the formula 2 Ct as described in the ABI User Bulletin 2 docs.appliedbiosystems.com pebiodocs 04303859.pdf .

Consistent with the flow cytometric expression analysis CD52 CD127 and GITR transcripts were higher in CD52cells than CD52cells .

In order to analyze expression of the structurally related CD24 GPI anchored glycoprotein CFSE labelled PBMCs were incubated with TT for 7 days and sorted into CD52CD24 CD52CD24 CD52CD24and CD52CD24CD4 T cells. Each population 5 000 cells was incubated with sorted CD52responder cells 5 000 and irradiated PBMCs 20 000 and analysed by ELISpot assay. Results are mean sem of triplicates.

Expression of the GPI anchored glycoprotein CD24 structurally related to CD52 Tone et al 1999 was higher on CD52CD4 T cells. Although antigen activated CD24CD4 T cells unlike CD52CD4 T cells were not suppressive it was important to determine if CD24 better delineated CD52CD4 T cells with suppressor function. TT activated PBMCs were sorted into four distinct CD4 populations according to both CD52 and CD24 expression and then tested for suppressor function after re activation with TT. This revealed that suppression by CD52cells was not influenced by expression of CD24 .

The suppressor function of antigen activated CD52CD4 T cells was retained across a transwell without cell cell contact . Thus the present disclosure demonstrates that CD52CD4 Treg suppression is mediated at least in part by a soluble mediator. As discussed in Vignali et al. 2008 inhibitory cytokines have previously been investigated as possible soluble mediators of Treg suppression though results have been inconclusive and the general perception has remained that cell cell contact is essential for Treg suppressor function. The results disclosed herein suggested that CD52CD4 T cells either removed a soluble factor required for the function of responder T cells or produced a soluble factor that suppressed responder T cells.

The role of IL 2 was investigated in a number of experiments including the use of quantitative real time RT PCR to determine expression levels. In the quantitative RT PCR analysis total RNA was extracted from cells with the RNAeasy Mini Kit Qiagen Melbourne Australia treated with RNase free DNase Qiagen and quantified with the Agilent 2100 Bioanalyser. cDNA was reverse transcribed from 10 ng RNA reaction. Primers for PCR designed with PrimerExpress software and synthesized by Sigma Aldrich Castle Hill NSW Australia were 

Power SYBR Green PCR Master Mix was from Applied Biosystems. cDNA was subjected to 40 cycles of amplification in an ABI Prism 7900 instrument according to the manufacturer s protocol. mRNA expression normalized to endogenous actin expression was quantified by the comparative critical threshold Ct method according to the formula 2 Ct as described in the ABI User Bulletin 2 docs.appliedbiosystems.com pebiodocs 04303859.pdf .

Consumption or degradation of IL 2 by CD52CD4T cells was considered an unlikely mechanism of suppression for several reasons i exogenous IL 2 did not overcome suppression ii quantitative RT PCR revealed that IL 2 gene expression was actually higher in CD52cells thus 24 h after re activation by GAD65 the expression of IL 2 mRNA in CD52relative to CD52cells was 1.54 0.15 mean sem n 3 iii IL 2 concentration in the medium of CD52cells was higher than for CD52cells both resting 89.5 4.82 v 64.9 3.10 pg ml and after re activation with GAD65 138.7 4.16 v 82.4 1.78 pg ml mean sem n 3 P 0.02 Kruskal Wallis test iv in the media in which IL 2 was measured soluble IL 2 receptor CD25 was undetectable data not shown . Thus the removal of IL 2 was thought to be an unlikely mechanism of CD52Treg suppression.

Treg suppression was then found to be unchanged in the presence of agents that block the action or production of factors reported to mediate suppression by CD4 Treg cells Sakaguchi et al. 2008 2009 Shevach 2006 2009 Vignali et al. 2008 . These included neutralizing monoclonal antibodies to IL 10R or TGF RII singly or in combination 10 g ml each the cyclooxygenase 2 COX 2 inhibitor indomethacin 20 M which blocks prostaglandin E2 production the pan nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N G monomethyl L arginine 800 M which blocks nitric oxide production the indoleamine 2 3 dioxygenase IDO inhibitor 1 methyl dl tryptophan 200 M which blocks production of inhibitory tryptophan metabolites and the adenosine A2A receptor antagonist SCH58261 20 M which blocks the action of adenosine data not shown . Recently a novel suppressor cytokine IL 35 a heterodimer of IL 27 EBi3 and IL 12 p35 subunits was shown to be secreted by CD4 CD25 Treg cells which also required cell cell contact for suppression Collison et al. 2007 . IL 35 was unable to be measured directly because antibodies to IL 35 or its receptor were not available. However 24 h after re activation by GAD65 the expression of IL 27 and IL 12 mRNA was lower in CD52than CD52CD4 cells 0.423 0.188 vs 1.38 0.224 mean sem n 3 indicating that IL 35 is unlikely to account for suppression by CD52CD4 T cells.

CFSE labelled PBMCs were incubated with GAD65 for 7 days and sorted into CD52and CD52CD4 T cells. Sorted cells were re activated with GAD65 and media collected after 24 hrs. Media were concentrated 10 fold fractionated by SDS PAGE transferred to a PDVF membrane and blotted with a rabbit polyclonal antibody to CD52 in order to detect the presence of soluble CD52 in the media.

The phospholipase C inhibitor U73122 was then analysed as a potential inhibitor of soluble CD52 production. CFSE labelled PBMCs were incubated with TT for 7 days and sorted into CD52CD4 T cells. Sorted cells were re activated with TT and media collected after 24 hrs and subjected to immunoblotting as above. Separately CFSE labelled PBMCs were incubated with TT for 7 days and sorted into CD52and CD52CD4 T cells which then were incubated together 5 000 of each in ELISpot plates with irradiated PBMCs 20 000 and TT phospholipase C inhibitor U73122. Results are mean sem of triplicates.

In addition antibody to the carbohydrate moiety of CD52 was analysed as another potential inhibitor of suppression by TT activated CD52CD4 T cells. Procedures were as described for the phospholipase C inhibitor U73122 above except that cells in the ELISpot assay were incubated with or without TT and either 10 g ml anti CD52 CF1D12 or isotype control IgG3 monoclonal antibody. Results mean sem are representative of three independent experiments.

Immunoblotting revealed that CD52 was present in the medium of CD52CD4 T cells that had divided in response to GAD65 and increased in quantity after their re activation by GAD65 . The same result was found with TT as antigen and the phospholipase C inhibitor U73122 added before re activation with IT reduced the quantity of CD52 in the medium . Moreover inhibition of phospholipase C reversed suppression by CD52CD4 T cells in a dose dependent manner . The monoclonal antibody CF1D12 which interacts with the terminal carbohydrate on the CD52 peptide Hale 2001 prevented suppression by CD52of CD52CD4 T cells . Together these findings indicated that suppression by CD52CD4 T cells was due to soluble CD52 released by phospholipase cleavage in response to stimulation by antigen.

In considering a more abundant source of native soluble CD52 it was postulated that CD52 might be released spontaneously from some cell lines such as the Daudi B lymphoblast cell line in which GPI biosynthesis is defective due to a deficiency of the PIGY gene product Hu et al. 2009 .

Media from sorted CD4 CD52and CD52cells were collected 24 hrs after re activation of cells with GAD65 or TT. Media from cell lines Daudi Raji Jurkat and K562 were collected and concentrated 10 fold by freeze drying. Samples were fractionated by SDSPAGE and transferred to a PVDF membrane. After blocking with 5 non fat milk the membrane was incubated with rabbit polyclonal antibody to CD52 1 ug mL washed incubated with goat anti rabbit IgG horseradish peroxidase antibody and visualized by enhanced chemiluminescence.

Separately PBMCs 200 000 cells were cultured for 7 days in IMDM containing 20 Daudi cell conditioned medium with TT and either anti CD52 CF1D12 or isotype control antibody 10 g mL . To deplete soluble CD52 Daudi medium was incubated overnight with rabbit anti CD52 polyclonal antibody 1 g ml medium followed by precipitation with protein G Sepharose for 1 h at 4 C. Results mean sem are representative of three independent experiments.

Screening several cell lines revealed the presence of CD52 in culture media of Daudi and K562 cells . Daudi medium suppressed TT activated proliferation of PBMCs and suppression was reversed either by CF1D12 antibody or by immunodepletion confirmed by immunoblotting of CD52 demonstrating that T cell suppression was due to CD52 in the medium. CD52 was soluble and not present in exosomes or membrane particles because suppression was unaffected by centrifuging the medium at 100 000 g for 30 min data not shown .

To further explore the immunosuppressive function of soluble CD52 mature cell surface CD52 was cloned in a lentivirus vector as a fusion protein in frame with the Fc fragment of immunoglobulin G and a C terminal Strep tag sequence for purification. An Fe only construct was cloned as a control. Constructs were expressed stably in Daudi cells or transiently in HEK293T cells and soluble recombinant proteins purified from medium by elution with desthiobiotin from Streptactin resin.

The scheme for constructing DNAs encoding fusion proteins is shown in . A mutated human IgG1 Fe fragment Armour et al. 2003 joined to the signal peptide SigP sequence of CD52 was generated by PCR. This included a flexible GGSGG linker and two cleavage sites for Precission and Factor Xa proteases between the SigP and Fc fragment and a Strep tag II sequence for purification Schmidt and Skerra 2007 at the terminus of the Fc fragment. Primers as designated in used to generate and clone Fc constructs were 

A CD52 Fc construct comprising the CD52 SigP and extracellular domain ECD joined to the Fe fragment was generated by PCR. Primers used were 2F 2R1 1F2 and 1R2. PCR products were digested with BamHI EcoRI and ligated into the FTGW lentivirus vector Herold M J et al. 2008 . Clones were also verified by sequencing. Lentivirus particles were produced by CaPO4 mediated transfection of HEK293T cells seeded in 6 cm dishes with 10 ug of vector DNA together with three helper plasmids pMDLRRE pRSV REV and pVSV g . Virus containing cell culture medium was collected 48 hrs after transfection and passed through a 0.45 m filter. One milliliter was used to transduce 1 10Daudi cells grown in DME media supplemented with 10 FCS 100 mM non essential amino acids 2 mM glutamine and 5 10M 2 mercaptoethanol. Cells were screened for the highest expression of protein by intracellular staining and flow cytometry. CD52 Fc or Fc control proteins were purified from medium by single step affinity chromatography on Streptactin resin and elution with 2.5 mM desthiobiotin in 100 mM Tris HCl 150 mM NaCl 1 mM EDTA pH 8.0 as per the manufacturer s instructions. After dialysis SDS PAGE revealed single Coomassie blue stained bands of predicted size whose specificity was confirmed by Western blotting.

PBMCs 2 10cells well or purified CD4 T cells 5 10cells well in complete IMDM medium 5 heat inactivated pooled human serum were incubated in round bottomed 96 well plates with or without 10 Lfu ml TT and different concentrations of CD52 Fc or Fc proteins in a total volume of 200 at 37 C. in 5 CO air for up to 7 days. H thymidine 1 Ci well was added and after a further 18 h cells were harvested and radioactivity incorporated into DNA was measured by scintillation counting. Medium was sampled for assay of cytokines after 48 hr incubation. Dendritic cells DCs were isolated from PBMCs as described Mittag et al. 2011 . In brief PBMCs were first enriched for DCs by magnetic bead depletion of cells labelled with antibodies to lineage markers CD3 CD19 CD56 . Cells were then stained with fluorescent antibodies to HLA DR CD11c CD1b c CD304 and CD14 and flow sorted to purify CD1b c HLA DR CD11c conventional DC CD304 HLA DR CD11c plasmacytoid DC and CD14 CD16 CD11c monocytes. Purified DCs were pre incubated with CD52 Fc or Fc protein at 3.3 M for 30 min at 37 C. and washed twice. They were then serially diluted from 6000 cells well in a 96 round bottom well plate and incubated with CFSE labelled CD4 T cells 5 10 well isolated from a different donor. After 6 days the allogeneic T cell response was measured as frequency of dividing CFSEcells determined by flow cytometry.

As described above PBMCs 200 000 were cultured with TT for 7 days and purified CD4 T cells 20 000 with anti CD3 100 ng ml and anti CD28 200 ng ml antibody for 48 hr with 4 times the number of irradiated PBMCs in 200 l round bottom wells in the presence of recombinant CD52 Fc or Fc protein control protein at the indicated concentrations. H thymidine uptake was measured over the final 16 h of incubation. Results mean sem of triplicates are representative of six independent experiments.

Media from PBMCs activated with TT 3.3 M CD52 Fc or Fc proteins were sampled after 48 h incubation and assayed for cytokines by multiplex bead array.

CD52 Fc 20 g was incubated with or without PNGase F 1 000 units in 20 l PBS overnight at 37 C. in order to cleave N linked carbohydrate and the reaction terminated by heating at 75 C. for 10 min. Specifically PNGase F cleaves asparagine linked oligosaccharides between two N acetylglucosamine subunits immediately adjacent to the asparagine residue to generate a truncated carbohydrate with one N acetylglucosamine residue remaining on the asparagine. PBMCs were incubated with TT and treated or untreated CD52 Fc final 2.5 M for 7 days at 37 C. and 3H thymidine uptake then measured as above.

With PBMCs the proliferative response of T cells to TT was suppressed by CD52 Fc in a dose dependent manner and CD52 Fc suppressed the secretion of cytokines typifying different T cell lineages . The effect of CD52 Fc on T cell function was direct because it suppressed proliferation of purified CD4 T cells in response to T cell receptor cross linking with anti CD3 antibody and co stimulation with anti CD28 antibody . Evidence that CD52 Fc did not require antigen presenting cells for T cell suppression was obtained by showing that exposure of purified dendritic cells to CD52 Fc did not affect their ability to elicit an allogeneic T cell response .

As shown the ability of the CF1D12 antibody to block suppression by native CD52 implied that suppression may be mediated by the carbohydrate moiety of CD52. To examine its role in recombinant CD52 Fc the N linked carbohydrate was cleaved with the endoglycosidase PNGase F. This reduced the molecular weight of CD52 Fc from 48 to 30 kDa as predicted from loss of the carbohydrate and reduced its suppressive effect confirming the role of the carbohydrate moiety in mediating the suppressive effect of soluble CD52.

To further explore the role of the CD52 carbohydrate moiety in mediating T cell suppression CD52 Fc 3.3 M was incubated with neuraminidase 1 unit or carrier buffer only in 20 l for 30 min at 37 C. as recommended by the supplier. PBMCs were then incubated with TT neuraminidase treated or untreated CD52 Fc final 3.4 M in an ELISpot plate and developed after 24 h at 37 C. for IFN spots.

Separately PBMCs were incubated in an ELISpot plate with TT and CD52 Fc 3.4 M and different concentrations of affinity purified goat antibody to the extracellular domain of Siglec 10 or Fc 3.4 M antibody or different concentrations of recombinant Siglec 10 Fc before non adherent cells were transferred to an ELISpot plate for 24 hrs before development of IFN spots.

In order to investigate the possibility that soluble CD52 may act via other Siglec receptors than Siglec 10 CD4 T cells 20 000 were incubated in triplicate ELISpot plate wells at 37 C. with TT together with CD52 Fc or Fc 3.4 M each and anti human Siglec antibodies 10 g ml each or recombinant human Siglec 2 Fc 20 g ml as indicated in . After 20 h wells were washed and developed for IFN spots.

Treatment with neuraminidase to remove terminal sialic acids reduced suppression by CD52 Fc . The complex polylactosamine structure of the CD52 carbohydrate is proposed to terminate in 2 6 and possibly 2 3 sialic acids decorating galactose in 1 4 linkage with N acetylglucosamine Treumann et at 1995 . This sialoside sequence is recognized by human sialic acid binding Ig like lectin 10 Siglec 10 a cell surface transmembrane receptor and immunoglobulin superfamily member bearing two cytoplasmic immunoreceptor tyrosine based inhibition motifs ITIMs Munday et al. 2001 Crocker et al. 2007 . Although Siglec 10 has not been detected on mouse T cells Crocker et al. 2007 and some other Siglecs are not expressed on human T cells Nguyen et al. 2006 we found that Siglec 10 was expressed on human CD4 T cells and was upregulated by activation . Notably suppression of T cell function by CD52 Fc was reduced either by antibody to the extracellular domain of Siglec 10 or by soluble recombinant Siglec 10 Fc . The same concentrations of Siglec 10 Fc also reduced suppression by CD52CD4 T cells data not shown indicating that both recombinant and native CD52 recognize Siglec 10. T cell suppression by CD52 Fc was not reduced to the same extent by antibodies to other Siglecs than Siglec 10 or by recombinant human Siglec 2 Fc. These findings show that suppression by CD52 could be accounted for at least in part by its interaction with Siglec 10.

C57 B16 NODLt and RIP.B7 NODSCID mice were bred and maintained at the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research. OVA specific class I restricted TCR transgenic mice Hogquist et al. 1993 and OVA specific class II restricted TCR transgenic mice Barnden et al. 1998 have been previously described. Foxp3reporter mice were provided by Dr Yifan Zhang.

Cells were cultured in RPMI media supplemented with 10 FCS 1 100 GIBCO GlutaMAX I Supplement Invitrogen 1 1000 2 mercaptoethanol Sigma 1 100 NEAA gibco . Monoclonal anti CD52 antibodies were obtained from MBL. International clone BTG 2 PE conjugation or unlabeled. Polyclonal anti CD52 antibody obtained from Santa Cruz Biotechnology Inc sc27555 was used for Western Blot analysis. Monoclonal anti CD4 L3T4 clone GK1.5 and anti CD8a Ly 2 clone 53 6.7 antibodies were obtained from eBiosciences. Anti CD25 clone 3c7 was obtained from BioLegend. CD3 FITC antibody FoxP3 staining kit was obtained from eBioscience. Anti CD3 clone 2c11 anti CD28 clone 37.51 and isotype control monoclonal antibodies were from WEHI Monoclonal Antibody Lab. Flow cytometric analyses were done on a FACSAria with the FACS Diva software. Cells were sorted with a MoFlow cell sorter Cytomation Fort Collins Colo. .

Spleens were harvested and passed through a 70 m mesh treated with erythrocyte lysis buffer and washed. For activation of cells splenocytes were cultivated on plate bound anti CD3 2 g ml plus soluble anti CD28 1 g ml for 3 days. OTI or OTII splenocytes were incubated with 0.5 g ml OTI or 5 g ml OTII peptide for 4 days before analysed. For cell sorting experiments na ve or activated splenocytes from C57 B16 OTI or OTII NODLt or Foxp3 GFP mice were labelled with either CD3 FITC eBioscience CD4 APC eBioscience CD8 APC eBisoscience and CD52 PE MBL International . Labelled cells were separated with a MoFlow Cytometer and purity was 95 . Isolated cells were either used for RNA purification for T cell proliferation assays or in vivo experiments.

Sorted na ve or activated CD4 CD52or CD8 CD52T cells 2 10 in transwell experiments 1 10 were cultured with CD4 CD52or CD8 CD52T cells at a ratio of 1 1 and stimulated with 1 g ml soluble anti CD3 2c11 plus 8 10 in transwell experiment 4 10 irradiated T cell depleted APCs 2000 rad irradiation dose . 0.4 M transwells Corning polycarbonate membrane transwell inserts Cat No 3413 were placed in between cells. In blocking experiments 15 g ml anti CD52 rat IgG2a MBL International or isotype control was added. Proliferation assays were performed for 72 h in 96 well round bottom plates in a final volume of 200 l RPMI medium that contained 10 fetal calf serum. 1 Ci well H thymidine was added for the last 10 hours of the experiment and thymidine incorporation was measured by scintillation counting. Alternatively CFSE labelled responder cells were used as readout for proliferation. Na ve splenocytes or CD4 CD52or CD8 CD52T cells were resuspended in warm PBS 0.1 BSA at a cell number of 10 10per ml. 5 M CFSE was added and quickly resuspended. Cells were incubated at 37 degrees for 5 min before washed 3 times with cold buffer containing at least 10 BSA or FCS. CFSE labelled responder cells were incubated with CD4 CD52or CD8 CD52T cells plus additional controls for up to 7 days and analysed using the FACS Aria.

CD4 CD52or CD8 CD52T cells were stained with the cell division marker PKH.26 Sigma according to manufacturers recommendations. Briefly up to 1 10cells were resuspended in Diluent C provided by the kit and mixed with 2 M PKH.26 for 4 min at room temperature. Cells were washed 3 times with buffer containing at least 10 FCS. Responding CD4 CD52or CD8 CD52T cells were stained with CFSE as described above. Cells were cultivated alone or together for 4 6 days.

Total RNA was prepared from sorted T cells using the RNeasy kit from Qiagen. The cDNA was synthesized using oligo dT primers Qiagen 0.4 g p1 and M MLV reverse transcriptase 4000 U Applied Biosystems following the manufacturers recommendations. Realtime RT PCR was performed in an ABI PRISM 7900 cycler Applied Biosystems using a Quantitect SYBR Green PCR Kit Qiagen Cat No 204143 . and specific primers optimised to amplify 100 150 bp fragments of different genes. A threshold was set in the linear part of the amplification curve and the number of cycles needed to reach the threshold was calculated for every gene. Relative mRNA expression was determined by normalization to a reference gene b Actin or RPS9 .

CD52depleted total splenocytes or splenocytes depleted of CD3 CD4 or CD8 CD52T cells were injected iv into recipient mice. Recipient mice were either irradiated male NOD mice 8 week old male NOD mice 750 rad irradiation dose 4 hours before transfer of 1 to 1.2 10cells or 8 week old RIP.B7 NOD.SCID mice receiving 2 10cells. Mice were monitored for signs of diabetes measuring urine glucose 3 times a week using Diastix from Bayer. If urine glucose exceeds 20 mM blood glucose is measured. Mice are designated diabetic if consecutive blood glucose readings are above 20 mM glucose.

4 weeks postadoptive transfer of cells mice were sacrificed. Pancreata were harvested and fixed overnight in Bouin s solution and then transferred to 70 ethanol. Fixed pancreata were embedded in paraffin blocks a minimum of 12.8 m sections were cut at least 150 m apart. The sections were stained with haematoxylin eosin and evaluated for incidence and severity of insulitis in light microscopy independently by two investigators. A minimum of 10 islets from each mouse were observed and the degree of mononuclear cell infiltration was scored using the following ranking 0 no infiltration 1 peri ductal infiltrate 2 peri islet infiltrate 3 intra islet infiltrate 4 beta cell destruction.

Transfer of CD52 depleted splenic lymphocytes from 8 week old NOD mice into NOD.scid mice lead to rapid onset of diabetes non depleted cells had no effect . Transfer of CD52 depleted CD3 T cells accelerated diabetes onset but was not as efficient as the depletion of total lymphocyte CD52cells . Thus CD52lymphocytes were shown to protect against autoimmune diabetes.

PBMCs stained with CFSE were cultured with GAD65 or TT for 7 days before determination of CD52CD4 T cell frequency by flow cytometric analysis.

Individuals with and at risk for type 1 diabetes have fewer CD52CD4 T cells than healthy individuals in response to GAD65 but not TT . The horizontal bar is the median for each group. Overall P values for analysis of variance were determined by the Kruskal Wallis test Dunn s multiple comparison test then revealed significant differences between both Pre T1D and T1D compared Healthy or T2D at P

CFSE labelled PBMCs from individuals with islet cell autoantibodies at risk for type 1 diabetes were incubated with GAD65 for 7 days and sorted into CD52and CD52CD4 T cells according to the methods described herein. Sorted cells 5 000 were incubated in ELISpot plates with irradiated PBMCs 20 000 .

As shown in suppressor function of CD52CD4 cells generated in response to GAD65 is impaired in comparison to suppressor function of CD52CD4 cells generated in response to TT. Results are representative of 6 at risk subjects. Thus CD52CD4 cell suppressor function is impaired in pre clinical T1D.

Female NOD mice were monitored by weekly testing for urine glucose and diabetes was diagnosed in mice with a positive urine test by a blood glucose concentration 14 mM. As soon as hyperglycemia was confirmed mice were given either CD52 Fc or Fe 20 g i.p. six doses on alternate days and their blood glucose concentrations then monitored twice weekly.

Soluble CD52 Fc was shown to reduce blood glucose levels . As shown administration of CD52 Fc had a rapid and significant effect to reduce blood glucose levels demonstrating the suitability of soluble CD52 as a therapeutic for the treatment of autoimmune diseases such as type 1 diabetes.

5 10rhCD52 Fc or Fc treated diabetic NOD splenocytes were injected into NOD.SCID mice. Splenocytes from female diabetic mice were isolated and incubated with either 50 ug ml recombinant human CD52 Fc or Fc protein for 1.5 hr in CD52 buffer Tris buffered saline 2 mM of MgCl2 CaCl2 and MnCl2 5 mM glucose 1 mouse serum . Cells were re suspended in PBS and 1 10cells were injected into male NOD.SCID mice 12 per group .

Treatment of splenocytes from diabetic NOD mice ex vivo with CD52 Fc resulted in an increase in the diabetes free survival in NOD.SCID mice into which the treated splenocytes were implanted . This is yet further evidence of the therapeutic use of soluble CD52 for the treatment of autoimmune diseases such as type 1 diabetes.

Mouse ovalbumin Ova specific TCR transgenic CD4 OT II T cells are a convenient model for testing immune suppression since approximately half of the CD4 T cells are specific for ovalbumin and T cell responses are therefore strong and predictable. Splenocytes 1 10 from 10 week old female OT II mice were incubated for 3 days in round bottom 96 well plates in 200 ml RPMI 1640 medium containing 5 FCS and the concentrations indicated in of ova protein or peptide or anti CD3 antibody clone 2C 11 and recombinant human CD52 Fc or Fc protein. H thymidine uptake was measured over the last 16 h of culture. Results are mean sem of triplicates.

As shown in CD52 Fc significantly reduced T cell proliferation in response to stimulation by ova protein or peptide in a dose dependent manner providing further evidence of the therapeutic potential of soluble CD52 in treating autoimmune diseases.

CD52 was identified in human semen samples using the following ELISA protocol. Initially seminal fluid SF was centrifuged at 500 g for 5 min to pellet sperm confirmed by microscopic inspection of the supernatant. Anti human CD52 antibody Biolegend 338202 was used as the capture agent 1 100 in PBS 50 l well overnight 4 C. . Wells were washed 3 times in PBS 0.01 Tween followed by 3 times in PBS. A solution of 5 BSA PBS BSA Sigma A7906 was used to block wells 200 l well 1 hr at room temperature RT . Washing was performed as above. Blank wells were included as controls. Semen samples were diluted in 5 BSA PBS and added at 50 l well. Samples were incubated in the wells for 3 hr at RT. Washing was performed as above. For detection Campath mAb HRP was used at 1 1000 in 5 BSA PBS 100 l well 1 h at RT . Washing was performed as above. 3 3 5 5 Tetramethylbenzidine TMB was added and the plates read at 450 nm.

CD52 immunodepletion was performed according to the following protocol. 200 l Protein G Sepharose was aliquoted into 2 Eppendorf tubes followed by washing 2 with 1 ml PBS the supernatant being discarded. 5 mg Campath mAb was added to one Eppendorf and 5 mg Octagam pooled human immunoglobulin to the other. The tubes were rotated for 1.5 h at 4 C. followed by washing 3 with 1 ml PBS each. Supernatants were discarded. 500 l PBS was added mixed well and samples split evenly into 5 Eppendorf tubes for each sample. Tubes containing Campath and Octagam were spun and supernatants discarded. Semen samples were added to the appropriate tubes 5 different semen samples i.e. semen 160 l 160 l PBS followed by rotation overnight at 4 C. Tubes were spun and supernatants collected for use in T cell assays at 1 20 already diluted 1 2 therefore 1 10 into assay .

T cell proliferation in response to antigen TT in PBMCs from healthy donors was measured by CFSE dye dilution Mannering et al. 2003 . CFSE labelled cells 2 10 well 100 l were cultured in 96 well round bottom plates in replicates of 6 with medium alone or with TT CF1D12 anti CD52 mAb final concentration 20 g ml . The latter was added at either at 0 or 20 hr the later time to allow initiation of activation of T cells given that the receptor for soluble CD52 Siglec 10 was shown to be up regulated by activation . Unstained cells were also included and used to set the compensations on the flow cytometer. The cell division index CDI was calculated as the ratio of the number of divided CFSECD4 cells per 20 000 undivided CFSECD4 cells in the presence of antigen to the number of divided CFSECD4 cells per 20 000 undivided CFSECD4 in the absence of antigen.

As shown in antigen TT alone dramatically increased T cell proliferation see No semen bars in . However this effect was significantly reduced in the presence of semen see IT for semen samples 1 and 15 in . A single round of immunodepletion of CD52 using the anti CD52 antibody Campath partially reversed the inhibitory effect of semen see Campath TT bars for semen samples 1 and 15 in . No significant reversal was seen with the control IgG immunodepleted samples.

As shown in antigen TT alone dramatically increased T cell proliferation see No semen bars in . Addition of the anti CD52 antibody CF1D12 further increased T cell proliferation. However in the presence of semen T cell proliferation was dramatically reduced see TT for semen samples 14 20 and 22 in . Thus semen increases unstimulated and decreased antigen stimulated proliferation. Addition of the anti CD52 antibody CF1D12 partially reversed the inhibitory effect of semen.

Thus semen derived soluble CD52 achieved the same suppressive effect on effector T cell function exemplified in this Example by T cell proliferation as lymphocyte derived soluble CD52 demonstrating that alternative carbohydrate moieties can be present on the soluble glycoprotein disclosed herein without diminishing its inhibitory function.

THP 1 cells human acute monocytic leukemia cell line were grown in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10 FCS 2 mM glutamine and 50 M 2 mercaptoethanol. Cells were seeded at 2 10 well in IMDM containing 5 pooled heat inactivated human serum 100 mM non essential amino acids 2 mM glutamine and 50 M 2 mercaptoethanol IP5 medium at 37 C. under 5 CO.

Cells were incubated with different doses of CD52 Fc or Fc control in presence of LPS 100 ng ml for 24 hr. Medium was collected and the concentration of IL 1 measured by ELISA. The results of this experiment are summarized in .

In a further experiment cells were incubated with different doses of CD52 Fc or Fc control in presence of the TLR 2 agonist Pam3CSK 100 ng ml for 24 hr. Media were then collected and the concentration of IL 1 measured by ELISA. The results of this experiment are summarized in .

THP 1 cells were also differentiated for 3 hr with 500 nM phorbol 12 myristate 13 acetate PMA . The cells were then washed and seeded at 2 10 well in IP 5 medium and incubated overnight at 37 C. under 5 CO. The next morning the medium was changed and cells were incubated with CD52 Fc or Fc control 50 g ml in presence of alum 100 g ml for 16 hour. Medium was collected and the concentration of IL 1 measured by ELISA. The results of this experiment are summarized in .

Bone marrow from 10 week old C57 B6 mice was differentiated for 7 days in granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor 10 ng ml in KDS RPMI medium 10 FCS. Bone marrow derived dendritic cells BMDCs were collected washed and seeded at 2 10 well in a 96 well plate. Cells were incubated with 40 g ml mouse CD52 Fc or PBS Control in presence of LPS 800 ng ml CPG 0.8 pM or 8 106 well In addition cells were primed for 3 hr with LPS 100 ng ml and then stimulated with the known inflammsome agonists monosodium urate MSU 150 g ml alum 150 g ml and nigericin 1 M . After 24 hr media were collected and cytokine concentrations measured by multiplex cytokine array assay. The results of this experiment using IL 1 are summarized in . Similar results were obtained for IL 1 TNF MCP 1 IL 6 IL 9 and IL 12 data not shown .

Mouse CD52 Fc 250 g was incubated with neuraminidase from 2 unit or reaction buffer 250 mM sodium phosphate pH 6.0 at 37 C. overnight and the reaction terminated by heating at 75 C. for 5 minutes. THP 1 cells were incubated with neuraminidase or reaction buffer treated mCD52 Fc final 12.5 g ml in presence of LPS 100 ng ml for 24 hr. Media were collected and the concentration of IL 1 measured by ELISA. The results of this experiment are summarized in .

Mouse CD52 Fc 300 g was treated with or without PNGase F under the same conditions according to the instructions of the manufacturer BioLabs Inc. . Removal of N linked oligosaccharide with reduction in the molecular weight of CD52 Fc was confirmed by SDS PAGE and Coomassie Blue staining. The protein solutions were then desalted by dialysis against pure sterile water. THP 1 cells were seeded at 2 10 well in IP5 medium and incubated with treated CD52 Fc final 30 g ml or glycosylated CD52 Fc in presence of 100 ng ml LPS for 24 hr. Media were collected and the concentration of IL 1 measured by ELISA. The results of this experiment are summarized in .

In response to a range of inflammatory stimuli CD52 Fc in a dose dependent manner suppressed IL 1 secretion by the human THP1 monocyte line and by mouse bone marrow derived dendritic cells. Furthermore as shown for T cells this suppressive effect of CD52 Fc depends on its oligosaccharide moiety because it was abrogated by prior treatment of CD52 Fc with neuraminidase to remove terminal sialic acids or with PNGase F to remove the N linked oligosaccharide itself. These findings demonstrate that the suppressive effects of CD52 Fc shown for T cells extend to other cell types that participate in innate immunity and again similar to T cells are presumably mediated by a Siglec receptor.

It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations and or modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly described. The present embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive.

The present application claims priority from U.S. 61 560 254 filed 15 Nov. 2011 and U.S. 61 705 633 filed 26 Sep. 2012 the entire contents of both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Any discussion of documents acts materials devices articles or the like which has been included in the present specification is solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present invention. It is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present invention as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this application.

