---

title: Task completion in email using third party app
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques and/or systems for providing a third party app through an email user interface are provided. That is, an email user interface may provide access to an email comprising email content (e.g., a message regarding meeting for dinner at the Emerald Tavern). The email content may be analyzed to identify an entity referenced by the email content (e.g., an Emerald Tavern entity). A user intent to accomplish a task may be determined based upon the entity. An action that may be performed to accomplish the task, and a third party app capable of performing the action may be presented through the email user interface (e.g., a restaurant reservation app capable of a reservation task). Responsive to selection of the third party app, the third party app may be executed within the email user interface without transitioning a user away from the immersive email experience.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09313162&OS=09313162&RS=09313162
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09313162
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121213
---
Many users communicate and or share information through email. A computing device such as a personal computer a mobile device and or a tablet device may host an email user interface through which a user may send receive read and or organize email. An email may comprise email content that may reference various entities such as people locations businesses consumer goods objects and or other things. In an example a subject line of an email may state Dinner at Emerald Tavern at 5 00 which may be indicative of an Emerald Tavern entity a dinner entity and or a time entity. In another example a message body of an email may state Do you want to go see the new Rock Group at the Music Hall next week which may be indicative of a concert entity a Rock Group entity and or a Music Hall entity. Based upon such emails a user may set out to accomplish a task such as a view menu task a reserve table task a buy tickets task a listen to music task etc. In this way the user may manually leave the email user interface open a web browser interface and perform a web search for a particular website and or service that may facilitate completion of the task.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for providing a third party app through an email user interface are provided herein. That is an email user interface e.g. a desktop email application a mobile device email application a tablet device email application a website based email service etc. may provide various email functionality such as sending receiving viewing and or organizing emails. An email may comprise email content such as textual data associated with a message body email metadata a subject line and or other portions of the email. Email content may be analyzed to identify one or more entities referenced by the email content. For example a work email may comprise email content Hey Dan we need to buy that new Printer Model Z . The email content may be parsed to identify a Printer Model Z entity and or other entities referenced by the email content e.g. a Dan entity a purchase entity etc. . A user intent to accomplish a task may be determined based upon the entity. For example a user intent to purchase the new Printer Model Z may be determined. It may be advantageous to facilitate completion of a purchase task by the user through a third party application without transitioning away from the email experience and or environment e.g. facilitating the purchase task without navigating away from the email user interface .

Accordingly an action e.g. a purchase office product action which may be performed to accomplish the purchase task may be presented through the email user interface. A third party app e.g. and or other third party apps capable of performing the action to accomplish the task may be presented through the email user interface. In an example the third party app may be selected based upon supplemental content derived from a user device hosting the email user interface e.g. a current location of the user device which may indicate a relatively close store from which the user may pick up the Printer Model Z a user profile e.g. the user may have an account with a particular office product store and or a user preference e.g. the user may prefer to use a particular office product store based upon the user having a coupon for the office product store .

Responsive to a selection of the third party app the third party app may be executed within the email user interface e.g. the third party app may be displayed within a first portion of the email user interface while the email content and or other email data or UI elements may be displayed within a second portion of the email user interface . The email user interface may be executed according to a user intent execution context corresponding to the entity the email content supplemental content and or the action etc. For example instead of merely opening the third party app to a home screen the third party app may be opened to a purchase screen for the Printer Model Z that may be contextually relevant to the user. In this way the user may interact with the third party app to execute the action in order to accomplish the task without leaving the email user interface thus allowing the user to accomplish various tasks referenced by email content without transitioning away from the email experience.

In an example the task may correspond to a threshold amount of information and or an importance threshold. For example a business acquisition task may entail reviewing relatively large amounts of information from multiple sources and or may have a relatively high importance due to a large amount of money involved. Accordingly a link to a third party app native version capable of executing outside of the email user interface e.g. a business acquisition application configured to execute within a desktop environment as opposed to a business acquisition app module configured to execute within the email user interface may be provided. Responsive to a selection of the link the user experience may be transitioned from execution of the third party app e.g. the business acquisition app module within the email user interface to execution of the third party app native version outside of the email user interface. User intent execution context may be passed to the third party app native version for execution e.g. a name of the business that is to be acquired .

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

An embodiment of providing a third party app through an email user interface is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At the method starts. In an example the email user interface e.g. an email office productivity desktop application may provide access to an email comprising email content. At the email content may be analyzed e.g. text of the email content may be parsed to identify an entity e.g. and or other entities referenced by the email content. The entity may comprise a person entity a business entity a consumer product entity a time entity a location entity an object entity and or any other type of entity. For example the email content may comprise the text Hey Dan we should meet tonight at the New Theater near you to watch that Holiday Movie . A New Theater entity a Holiday Movie entity and or other entities e.g. a current location entity a friend entity a time entity etc. may be identified.

At a user intent to accomplish a task may be determined based upon the entity. For example a user intent to purchase movie tickets for the Holiday Movie playing at the New Theater may be determined. In an example the task may not comprise an email related task that may otherwise be accomplished by the email user interface. At an action that may be performed to accomplish the task may be presented through the email user interface. For example a book movie tickets action may be presented. At a third party app e.g. and or other third party apps capable for performing the action to accomplish the task may be presented through the email user interface. In an example the third party app may be selected for presentation based upon supplemental content derived from information associated with a user device hosting the email user interface e.g. the user device may comprise a ticket reservation receipt from a particular third party app that may allow the user to confirm a prior reservation for the Holiday Movie a user profile e.g. the user may have an account with a particular third party app and or a user preference e.g. a third party app capable of accepting payments from an online payment account may be used based upon the user having a e.g. historical preference to make purchases using the online payment account as opposed to a credit card . In an example the third party app may comprise non email related functionality such as booking movie tickets functionality that may not be provided by the email user interface. It may be appreciated that in an example a third party app may comprise functionality associated with various types of tasks such as a consumer good purchase task a reservation task an obtain directions task an access digital content task e.g. an article a webpage a social network profile a text document an image text audio video etc. a social network task e.g. create an event or post obtain additional information related to an entity task e.g. preview a book etc.

In an example a second user intent to accomplish a second task may be determined based upon the entity e.g. and or other entities identified from the email content . For example a preview movie task for the Holiday Movie may be determined. A second action that may be performed to accomplish the second task may be presented through the email user interface e.g. along with the action . One or more additional third party apps capable of performing the second action to accomplish the second task may be presented through the email user interface. In this way the user may be provided with access to various actions and or third party apps based upon the email content.

At responsive to selection of the third party app e.g. a movie app the third party app may be executed within the email user interface e.g. without transitioning the user away from the email user interface and or an immersive email experience provided by the email user interface . For example the third party app may be displayed within a first portion of the email user interface while email content or UI elements may be displayed within a second portion of the email user interface. The third party app may be executed according to a user intent execution context corresponding to the entity the action the email content supplemental content and or the task etc. For example instead of merely opening the movie app to a start screen e.g. which may force the user to navigate through the movie app to get to movie booking functionality and or input additional information that may have been already comprised within the email content the movie app may be opened to a movie booking screen for the Holiday Movie at the New Theater. In an example of executing the movie app according to a user intent execution context a parameter used to execute the action may be identified e.g. a book movie action may have a theater name parameter a movie time parameter a movie name parameter etc. . A value for the parameter may be assigned to the parameter based upon the email content e.g. the text Holiday Movie New Theater etc. and or supplemental content derived from information associated with the user device e.g. a current location the user profile and or the user preference e.g. a favorite liked theater . The parameter may be included within the user intent execution context and the user intent execution content may be passed to the movie app for execution.

In an example the task may be determined as corresponding to a threshold amount of information e.g. a movie production task that may entail gathering various images assigning images to frames and or generating a movie file for release to the public and or an importance threshold e.g. the movie production task may be for an unreleased movie worth a relatively large amount of money . In such a case a user may prefer to perform the task using a third party app native version capable of executing outside of the email user interface e.g. a desktop application a website a web service a mobile app a tablet app an application marketplace app and or other apps . A link to the third party app native version may therefore be provided through the email user interface. Responsive to selection of the link the execution of the third party app within the email user interface may be transitioned to execution of the third party app native version outside of the email user interface. In an example the user intent execution context e.g. a movie name parameter derived from the email content and or supplemental content may be passed to the third party app native version for execution e.g. the third party app native version may be opened to a movie creation page for the new movie which may be contextually relevant to the user . In this way the user may accomplish the tasks through the email user interface and or may accomplish tasks outside the email user interface based upon the user intent execution context. At the method ends.

The action broker component may be configured to identify one or more actions that may be used to accomplish the one or more tasks. For example a view menu action may be used to accomplish the view menu task and a reserve seats action may be used to accomplish the book a table task. The action broker component may be configured to present the one or more actions through the email user interface e.g. presenting through an action selection interface hosted within the email user interface . The action broker component may be configured to identify one or more third party apps capable of performing the one or more actions. In an example a menus r us app and a food expert app may be identified as being capable of performing the view menu action . In another example a table reservation app may be identified as being capable of performing the reserve seats action . In an example of identifying a third party app the third party app may be selected based upon supplemental content such as information associated with the device e.g. a third party app currently installed for use through the email user interface an ability to connect to an application marketplace to download a third party app etc. a user profile e.g. a user may have an account with a third party app and or user preference data e.g. the user may prefer a particular third party app . In this way the action broker component may present the one or more third party apps within the email user interface without transitioning a user away from an immersive email experience provided by the email user interface e.g. presenting through the action selection interface .

The action broker component may be configured to receive a selection of a third party app presented through the email user interface e.g. a user may select a table reservation app capable of performing a reserve seats action e.g. from an action selection interface e.g. displayed through the email user interface . The action broker component may be configured to execute the third party app within the email user interface . For example the action broker component may execute a table reservation app within the email user interface . The table reservation app may be executed according to a user intent execution context corresponding to the Emerald Tavern entity the reserve seats action e.g. and or supplemental content. For example the table reservation app may utilize a restaurant name parameter a date parameter a number of seat parameter and or other parameters not illustrated in order to perform the reserve seats action e.g. . A value of Emerald Tavern identified by the Emerald Tavern entity may be assigned to the restaurant name parameter and a 5 00 on July 5 value may be assigned to the date parameter. The restaurant name parameter and the date parameter may be included within the user intent execution context. The user intent execution context may be passed to the table reservation app for execution. In this way the table reservation app may be opened to a state that may be contextually relevant to the user e.g. the table reservation app may be opened to a table reservation action form having the Emerald Tavern and or 5 00 on July 5 already populated within the table reservation action form .

The action broker component may be configured to identify one or more actions that may be used to accomplish the one or more tasks. For example a book flights action may be used to accomplish the book flight task and a hotel reservation action may be used to accomplish the hotel reservation task. The action broker component may be configured to present the one or more actions through the email user interface e.g. presenting through an action selection interface hosted within the email user interface . The action broker component may be configured to identify one or more third party apps capable of performing the one or more actions. In an example a flights r us app and a flight expert app may be identified as being capable of performing the book flight action . In another example a hotel reservation app may be identified as being capable of performing the hotel reservation action . In this way the action broker component may present the one or more third party apps within the email user interface without transitioning a user away from an immersive email experience provided by the email user interface e.g. presenting through the action selection interface .

The action broker component may be configured to receive a selection of a third party app presented through the email user interface e.g. a user may select a flight expert app capable of performing a book flight action e.g. from an action selection interface e.g. displayed through the email user interface . The action broker component may be configured to execute the third party app within the email user interface . For example the action broker component may execute a flight expert app within the email user interface . The flight expert app may be executed according to a user intent execution context corresponding to the Vegas entity the book flight action e.g. and or the supplemental content . For example the flight expert app may utilize a destination city parameter a departure city parameter a departure date and or other parameters not illustrated in order to perform the book flight action . A value of Vegas identified by the Vegas entity may be assigned to the destination city parameter. A value of Ohio identified by the supplemental content may be assigned to the departure city parameter. The destination city parameter and the departure city parameter may be included within the user intent execution context. The user intent execution context may be passed to the flight expert app for execution. In this way the flight expert app may be opened to a state that may be contextually relevant to the user e.g. the flight expert app may be opened to a flight reservation action form having Vegas and Ohio already populated within the flight reservation action form .

The action broker component may be configured to identify one or more actions that may be used to accomplish the one or more tasks. For example a stock quote action may be used to accomplish the stock quote task and or the sell stock task. The action broker component may be configured to present the one or more actions through the email user interface e.g. presenting through an action selection interface hosted within the email user interface . The action broker component may be configured to identify one or more third party apps capable of performing the one or more actions. In an example a stock evaluation app may be identified as being capable of performing the stock quote action . In this way the action broker component may present the one or more third party apps within the email user interface without transitioning a user away from an immersive email experience provided by the email user interface e.g. presenting through the action selection interface .

In an example the sell stock task may be determined as corresponding to an importance threshold and or a threshold amount of information . In an example of the importance threshold an importance metric for the sell stock task e.g. a metric value based upon an importance feature for the sell stock task and or based upon supplemental content indicating that the user owns over a certain dollar amount of Company X stock may exceed the importance threshold . In an example of the threshold amount of information a content volume metric for the sell stock task e.g. based upon an amount of information that is to be presented to the user to accomplish the sell stock task such as company records public announcements price history data stock forecasts user comments and or a variety of the information may exceed the threshold amount of information . Accordingly a link to a third party app native version e.g. a desktop version a mobile operating system version and or a website version of the stock evaluation app etc. that is capable of executing outside of the email user interface may be presented. In this way if the stock evaluation app is unable to provide the user with a robust experience e.g. unable to display an adequate amount of information through the email user interface then the user may utilize the link to access the stock evaluation app native version e.g. illustrated in .

The action broker component may be configured to receive a selection of the link presented through the email user interface e.g. . In an example where a stock evaluation app is not already executing through the email user interface a user may be redirected from the email user interface to the stock evaluation user interface executing outside of the email user interface. In an example where the stock evaluation app is already executing through the email user interface the execution of the stock evaluation app within the email user interface may be transitioned to an execution of the stock evaluation app within the stock evaluation user interface executing outside of the email user interface.

A user intent execution context may be passed to the stock evaluation user interface for execution. The user intent execution context may comprise one or more parameters having values derived from the email content e.g. the stock entity a Company X entity etc. and or supplemental content e.g. shareholder information for the user accessible through a device hosting the email user interface . In this way the stock evaluation user interface may be opened to an immersive state that may be contextually relevant to the user e.g. the stock evaluation user interface may display information associated with the Company X entity as opposed to generic stock information 

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of and or at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In an embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In an embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In an embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

