---

title: Program guide system with preference profiles
abstract: An interactive television program guide system is provided in which a user may inform a program guide of the user's interests. Information on the user's interests may be stored in a preference profile. There may be more than one preference profile, each for a different user. Each preference profile contains a number of preference attributes (program titles, genres, viewing times, channels, broadcast characteristics, etc.). A preference level (e.g., strong or weak like, strong or weak dislike, illegal, mandatory, don't care, etc.) that is indicative of the user's level of interest is associated with each preference attribute. Preference profiles may be used to restrict the programs that are listed in various program listings display screens and may be used to limit the channels to which the program guide allows the user to tune.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08806536&OS=08806536&RS=08806536
owner: United Video Properties, Inc.
number: 08806536
owner_city: Tulsa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120905
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 894 609 filed Aug. 20 2007 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 704 736 filed Feb. 9 2007 now abandoned which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 034 934 filed Mar. 4 1998 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 185 355 issued Feb. 27 2007 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention relates to interactive television program guides and more particularly to television program guides in which users may create profiles of their programming preferences. Profiles contain information about the user s interests e.g. favored or disfavored programming genres actors channels series etc. The profiles are used by the program guide in determining which channels the user may tune to and which programs are to be included in various lists displayed by the guide.

Cable satellite and broadcast television systems provide viewers with a large number of television channels. Viewers have traditionally consulted printed television program schedules to determine the programs being broadcast at a particular time. More recently interactive electronic television program guides have been developed that allow television program information to be displayed on a viewer s television.

Interactive program guides are typically implemented on set top boxes. Such program guides allow users to view television program listings in different display formats. For example a user may instruct the program guide to display a grid or table of program listings organized in a channel ordered or a time ordered list. Users may also search and sort program listings by genre e.g. movies sports etc. or by title i.e alphabetically . A user may obtain additional information for a program by placing a highlight region on a desired program listing and pressing an info button. The user may purchase a pay program from the program guide by placing the highlight region on a program listing and pressing an OK button. Some systems allow the user to select a program for recording by placing the highlight region on a program listing and pressing a record button.

Because there are so many television channels available particularly with cable and satellite television systems television program guides have been developed that allow users to establish lists of favorite channels. When a user is channel surfing the set top box on which the program guide is implemented can be directed to tune only to channels contained in the favorite channel list. When the user directs the program guide to display current or future programming the displayed list of programs is restricted to television programs that occur only on the user s preselected favorite channels.

This approach is not very selective. Even though a user may have chosen a channel as a favorite some of the programming that appears on that channel may not be of interest to the user. Moreover programs that would be of interest to the user often appear on channels that the user has not chosen as favorites e.g. because the user does not like most of the programming on those channels .

What is needed is a more sophisticated way in which a user may inform a program guide of the user s preferences so that the program guide can more accurately filter out disliked programming while retaining more programming of the type the user likes.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a program guide system with which a user may set up a profile based on various preference attributes.

These and other objects of the invention are accomplished in accordance with the principles of the present invention by providing an interactive television program guide system in which a user may inform a program guide of the user s television programming interests. The user may specify a number of preference attributes such as program title genre start time broadcast characteristics language rating critics ratings actor etc. Each preference attribute has an associated preference level that is indicative of the user s interest in that attribute. Suitable preference levels include strong like weak like strong dislike weak dislike illegal mandatory and don t care.

The program guide may maintain the preference attributes and associated preference levels for a user in a preference profile. Different preference profiles may be used by different users of the same program guide. If desired more than one preference profile may be active at a given time.

The program guide may use the preference profiles when displaying lists of available television programming. Only those programs that satisfy the preference profile will be displayed by the program guide even if other programs are available. Another way in which the program guide may use the preference profiles is to restrict the programs to which the user may tune with the system to only those programs that satisfy the profile.

A user may define a preferred sort order for programs that satisfy the profile. The user may also specify a desired preference scope. A narrow scope may be used to restrict programming choices to programs that are liked whereas a wide scope may be used to restrict programming choices to programs that are just not disliked.

The user may direct the program guide to require a personal identification number PIN in order to access certain profile modification options. Such personal identification number access control may be used by parents to control the television viewing of their children.

Further features of the invention its nature and various advantages will be more apparent from the accompanying drawings and the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments.

An illustrative program guide system in accordance with the present invention is shown in . Main facility contains a program guide database for storing program guide information such as television program guide listings data pay per view ordering information television program promotional information etc. Information from database may be transmitted to television distribution facility via communications link . Link may be a satellite link a telephone network link a cable or fiber optic link a microwave link a combination of such links or any other suitable communications path. If it is desired to transmit video signals over link in addition to data signals a relatively high bandwidth link such as a satellite link is generally preferable to a relatively low bandwidth link such as a telephone line.

Television distribution facility is a facility for distributing television signals to users such as a cable system headend a broadcast distribution facility or a satellite television distribution facility.

The program guide information transmitted by main facility to television distribution facility includes television program listings data for current and future television programs. The television program listings data for each program preferably includes the title of the program the channel for the program a scheduled broadcast time start time and an ending time or duration . Other typical program listings data include ratings critics ratings descriptions genres sports movies children etc. actors etc. Transmitted program information may also include advertising information and pay program data such as pricing information for individual programs and subscription channels time windows for ordering programs and channels telephone numbers for placing orders that cannot be impulse ordered etc.

Television distribution facility distributes television programming and program guide information to the user television equipment of multiple users via communications paths . For example television programming may be distributed over analog television channels and program guide data may be distributed over an out of band channel on paths . Data distribution may also involve using one or more digital channels on paths . Such digital channels may also be used for distributing television programming and other information. Multiple television and audio channels analog digital or both analog and digital may be provided to set top boxes via communications paths . If desired program listings and other information may be distributed by one or more distribution facilities that are similar to but separate from television distribution facility using communications paths that are separate from communications paths .

Certain functions such as pay program purchasing may require set top boxes to transmit data to television distribution facility over communications paths . If desired such data may be transmitted over telephone lines or other separate communications paths. If functions such as these are provided using facilities separate from television distribution facility some of the communications involving set top boxes may be made directly with the separate facilities.

Each user has a receiver which is typically a set top box such as set top box but which may be other suitable television equipment into which circuitry similar to set top box circuitry has been integrated. Program guide data is distributed to set top boxes periodically. Television distribution facility may also poll set top boxes periodically for certain information e.g. pay program account information or information regarding programs that have been purchased and viewed using locally generated authorization techniques . Main facility preferably contains a processor to handle information distribution tasks. Each set top box preferably contains a processor to handle tasks associated with implementing a program guide application on the set top box . Television distribution facility may contain a processor for tasks associated with monitoring a user s interactions with the interactive program guide implemented on set top boxes and for handling tasks associated with the distribution of program guide data and other information to user television equipment .

Each set top box is typically connected to an optional videocassette recorder so that selected television programs may be recorded. Each videocassette recorder is connected to a television . To record a program set top box tunes to a particular channel and sends control signals to videocassette recorder e.g. using an infrared transmitter that direct videocassette recorder to start and stop recording at the appropriate times.

During use of the interactive television program guide implemented on set top box television program listings and other information may be displayed on television . Such program guide displays may be presented on top of a television program to which the user has tuned with set top box or may be presented in place of such a program. Each set top box videocassette recorder and television may be controlled by one or more remote controls or any other suitable user input interface such as a wireless keyboard mouse trackball dedicated set of buttons etc. Remote controls such as remote control have various buttons that may be pressed by the user such as cursor keys for on screen movement of a highlight region scrolling functions etc. an enter key for making a selection channel number keys for selecting a television channel a favorites key to invoke functions related to user preferences etc.

Because television viewers sometimes feel overwhelmed by the large number of programming choices that are available particularly with modern cable and satellite systems the present invention allows users to inform the program guide of their programming preferences. The program guide may then tailor its operation to reflect the user s programming interests.

For example a user may inform the program guide that the user likes the program Seinfeld and the programming genre movies but dislikes the actor John Wayne. The program guide can use these preferences to limit the amount of material that is presented to the user e.g. when generating lists of television program choices or when deciding which channels to allow the user to tune to with the set top box . The different types of television program characteristics that a user may indicate a preference about are referred to herein as preference attributes.

Each preference attribute may have an associated preference level. For example users may indicate whether a preference attribute is liked disliked illegal mandatory or don t care neutral . The degree to which a user likes or dislikes certain preference attributes may also be specified. For example the user may indicate that the preference level associated with the preference attribute of the genre sports is a strong like and that the preference level associated with the preference attribute of the actor John Wayne is a weak dislike.

The program guide implemented on set top box provides various options that allow the user to specify which different preference attributes are to be used in presenting television program listings information to the user. Such options may be provided in the form of clickable menu items drop down lists or any other suitable format. The user may select a desired menu item using a highlight region cursor arrow or other suitable on screen indicator that may be positioned over an option on the display i.e. television . For example a user may position a highlight region over a desired menu item and press OK on remote control to complete the selection. Selections that involve entering characters may be made by selecting characters from characters displayed on screen e.g. using cursors to move through the alphabet or by using a wireless keyboard or other alphanumeric entry device.

Steps that are involved in providing preference attribute options with the program guide are shown in and . At step of the program guide may provide the user with the option of selecting a certain type of channel such as the pay per view channel type as a preference attribute. This feature allows a user to express an interest in e.g. pay per view programming without requiring the user to individually select or even know the names of all of the pay per view channels that are available.

At step the program guide may provide the user with the option of selecting a given airing of a program as a preference attribute. For example if the user wishes to watch the next broadcast of the program Seinfeld at 9 00 on Thursday the user may select that broadcast of Seinfeld as a preference attribute and may indicate that the selection has a preference level of strong like. This effectively allows the user to use the indicated preference as a reminder e.g. in situations in which the program guide has been configured to present an on screen reminder of all upcoming programs that satisfy the user s selected preferences .

At step the program guide may provide the user with the option of selecting a given program series as a preference attribute. For example the user could indicate an interest in the Seinfeld series. When the user directs the program guide to present a list of available programs the programs that are listed will include those in the Seinfeld series unless a conflicting preference prevents such a program from being listed .

At step the program guide may provide the user with the option of selecting as a preference attribute a program genre category or other suitable grouping e.g. all programs aired on Sundays etc. that are not in a traditional genre but that are in some way related . For example the genre which may be a subgenre may be sports children s programming news weather movies action horror baseball football comedy etc.

At step the program guide may provide the user with the option of selecting a rating G PG TV Y etc. a range of ratings e.g. the R rating and all ratings for more mature audiences or a parental control advisory e.g. this program contains strong language etc. as a preference attribute.

At step the program guide may provide the user with the option of selecting an actor or actress as a preference attribute.

At step the program guide may provide the user with the option of selecting a topic e.g. cooking photography music painting keyword e.g. cooks etc. or sporting team as a preference attribute.

As shown in at step the program guide may provide the user with the option of selecting a given word or phrase in a program description as a preference attribute. The program guide may search all program descriptions for the presence of the selected word or phrase when determining whether a program satisfies the user s preference criteria.

At step the program guide may provide the user with the option of selecting a channel as a preference attribute.

At step the program guide may provide the user with the option of selecting a start time e.g. a scheduled broadcast time an end time or a range of broadcast times as a preference attribute. This feature may be used for parental control by restricting the viewing times available for children.

At step the program guide may provide the user with the option of selecting original or rerun programs as a preference attribute.

At step the program guide may provide the user with the option of selecting a given broadcast characteristic such as closed captioning or secondary audio as a preference attribute.

At step the program guide may provide the user with the option of selecting a language as a preference attribute.

At step the program guide may provide the user with the option of selecting a certain critics rating e.g. three stars or three stars or greater etc. as a preference attribute.

The steps involved in providing the preference attribute selection options shown in and are illustrative only and the program guide may provide the user with the option of selecting any other suitable preference attributes if desired. Moreover the order of the steps shown in and is not important. Typically several such options are provided at the same time e.g. on the same menu screen .

The preference attributes the user selects may be organized in a profile sometimes called a preference profile or a favorites profile . If there are several users e.g. different family members associated with a given program guide each user may have his own profile. A profile may contain more than one preference attribute of the same type. For example preference profile of has three series preference attributes series Nos. 1 2 and 3 four genre preference attributes movies game shows news baseball and comedy and two actor preference attributes John Wayne and Arnold Schwarzenegger .

If desired the user may specify a priority or sort order in which programs satisfying the preference criteria in a profile are to be displayed or tuned to. When listing or tuning to programs that satisfy a profile the programs matching the highest priority preference attributes may be tuned to with set top box or listed on the display of television first. This feature is particularly useful when a user wishes to further simplify the process of selecting programs of interest.

When a user selects an individual showing of a program as part of a preference profile the program guide will allow that selection to expire at the end of the program. This is shown as step in . The program guide may allow preference attributes that have been selected by the user to remain valid until deselected by the user step .

Preference levels that may be used to indicate the user s interest or disinterest in a given preference attribute include strong like weak like strong dislike or weak dislike mandatory appropriate e.g. for closed captioning for a deaf person illegal appropriate for R rated programs for a child and don t care neutral . As shown in after the program guide provides the user with an opportunity option for selecting preference attributes at step the program guide provides an option that allows the user to set one of at least several available preference levels for each selected preference attribute at step .

The program guide also allows the user to specify a preference scope at step . Each profile may have a separate associated preference scope. The preference scope is used to determine which programs that match the preference criteria in the profile will be displayed or used when tuning . If the user opts to display a list of programs based on a preference profile the program guide may display a list of current or future programming based on the selected preference attributes selected preference levels and preference scope that are associated with the profile at step . If the user opts to have the program guide restrict the user s tuning options based on the preference profile the program guide may allow tuning to certain channels or programs based on the selected preference attributes selected preference levels and the selected preference scope that are associated with the profile at step . The program listings information that is used by the program guide in displaying the list of programs or in controlling the tuning of the set top box is the program listings data provided to the program guide by the television distribution facility.

An illustrative preference profile containing a number of preference attributes associated preference levels and an associated preference scope is shown in . is a table containing an illustrative list of programs that might be available to the user under the title column . The results that appear under the columns labeled narrow scope moderate scope and wide scope show which programs from the titles column satisfy the preference attributes and preference levels of profile .

When the user selects the widest scope in the example of the program guide lists or allows tuning to programs that have all mandatory attributes and no illegal attributes. For example Seinfeld is included in the widest preference scope because Seinfeld has the only mandatory attribute that is specified in profile of FIG. closed captioning. In addition Seinfeld has no preference attributes with a preference level of illegal R rating TV MA rating or NC 17 rating . The Night at the Opera is not included because it does not have a mandatory attribute closed captioning . Dante s Peak is not included because it has a illegal rating R .

When the user selects the moderate scope in the example of the program guide lists or allows tuning to programs that have no preference attributes with an associated preference level of disliked and that have all mandatory attributes and no illegal attributes. The program Terminator is not within the moderate scope example of because the preference attribute of horror in profile of has an associated preference level of weak dislike and the preference attribute of Schwarzenegger an actor in the program Terminator has an associated preference level of strong dislike. When faced with two different preference levels associated with the same program the program guide uses the stronger of the two in this case strong dislike . The program ER is included within the moderate scope example of because it does not have any disliked attributes.

When the user selects the narrow preference scope in the example of the program guide lists or allows tuning to all liked programs that are not more disliked and that have all mandatory attributes and no illegal attributes. The program ER is not within the narrow scope example because it does not have any liked attributes.

The program guide allows multiple profiles to be used. For example different users e.g. different family members who share user television equipment may each have their own profile. One profile maybe used for children. Another profile may be used for children when watching television with their parents who can supervise . A profile may be created for each adult. Another profile may be created for adults to use when watching television together.

An illustrative set of profiles is shown in . Profile No. belongs to a first user who has a strong like for the program Seinfeld a strong like for the genre comedy a strong dislike for the genre horror a weak dislike for reruns and a strong like for programs containing the text string Bond. The first user has selected a narrow preference scope. Profile No. belongs to a second user who has a weak like for the ESPN channel a strong like for the genre hockey a weak like for the broadcast characteristic second audio program SAP and a weak like for comedy. The second user has selected a moderate preference scope. Profile No. belongs to a third user who has a strong like for programs with a critics rating of three stars or more a strong like for the genre movies a strong dislike for the genre sports and a weak like for pay per view programs. The third user has selected a preference scope of narrow.

Although each profile has its own independent set of preference attributes any given attribute may be in more than one profile. For example the attribute comedy appears in both profile No. and profile No. .

When a user desires to use the program guide the user may activate an appropriate profile. As shown in the program guide provides users with the option of selecting which profile to make active at step . More than one profile may be active at a given time. If a single profile is made active at step the program guide displays lists of programming or allows tuning to certain channels or programs based on that single active profile at step . If multiple profiles are made active at step the program guide displays lists of programming or allows tuning to certain channels or programs based on the multiple profiles that are active at step .

When multiple profiles are used at the same time the program guide resolves conflicts between profiles. For example if one profile indicates that comedy is a strong like and another indicates that comedy is a strong dislike the program guide may use a preference level of neutral for the attribute comedy. Conflicts between the scopes selected in different profiles may be resolved for example by using a moderate scope for all situations in which multiple profiles are active. These techniques for allowing multiple profiles to be active at the same time are illustrative only. Any other suitable technique may be used if desired.

Preference attributes may be added to a profile by example. This is illustrated in . At step the user may tune set top box to a channel e.g. channel 9 to watch a desired television program e.g. the program Seinfeld or may highlight a desired program listing on any suitable program listings screen. The user may then press an appropriate button on the remote control e.g. a FAV or favorites key or may click on an on screen option. The program guide then provides an opportunity to modify or create a profile based on the characteristics of the selected program or the highlighted program listing at step .

For example as shown in the program guide may present a profiles display such as profiles display in which all attributes of the selected program or highlighted program listing Seinfeld are listed in column and the associated preference levels are listed in column . The user may select which profile to change or update when highlight region is on a profile name such as Mike. As indicated by arrows and when the user presses left or right cursor keys on the remote control the profile names for other users will be displayed under highlight region . By pressing a down cursor key highlight region may be moved to preference level selection region where the user may use the right and left cursor keys to set the desired preference level e.g. strong or weak like or dislike don t care or neutral illegal or mandatory for the program Seinfeld. The preference levels in column may be modified similarly for each of the other attributes listed in column . The neutral preference level don t care may be set as a default. If desired a previously selected attribute may be deselected from the profile. A new profile may be created by copying an existing profile and modifying its contents.

Another way in which profiles may be modified is shown in . Profiles display of allows the user to view all selected attributes for a given profile. The program guide provides option to allow the user to select which profile the user wishes to modify e.g. Mike in the example of . Option allows the user to set preference levels for various programs. Option allows the user to set preference levels for various categories. Option allows the user to set preference levels for various ratings. Option allows the user to set preference levels for various channels. The options shown in profiles display are illustrative only. Options may for provided for setting the preference levels of any desired preference attributes. The format of the options shown in is also only illustrative.

Other user interfaces may be used by the program guide if desired. For example it may be preferable to select ratings from a list i.e. using arrows in option to select from among various available ratings choices . In option the program guide may allow the user to enter the first few characters of a desired title. The program guide may then present a list of available titles that start with those letters. When the list has been narrowed sufficiently the user may select the desired program title from the list. The program guide may allow text to be entered letter by letter using the cursor keys on the remote to change each letter using a wireless keyboard using the numeric keys on the remote to enter letters corresponding to a telephone keypad etc. If desired the program guide may allow users to remove attributes from the profile being modified using profiles display .

As shown in the program guide may monitor the programs that are being watched by the user by monitoring the user s viewing times channels and the frequency with which the programs are watched step . Monitoring the user s behavior in this way allows the program guide to determine the user s preferences. The program guide may modify the currently active profile based on the programs that are watched at step . At step the program guide provides the user with an opportunity to review the automatic profile modifications and to remove or change these modifications. The program guide may also provide the user with the option of disabling the automatic profile modification feature at step .

If desired the user may direct the program guide to generate automatic program reminders for programs that satisfy the criteria in a profile. As shown in the program guide may provide the option of turning on such an automatic reminders feature at step . If the user turns this feature on at step the program guide displays automatic reminder messages on television of based on the profile that is currently active just prior to e.g. one minute before the scheduled broadcast times of the programs that satisfy the criteria in the profile step . The program guide may present a view now option as part of the reminders screen used to present a reminder to the user. If the user selects the view now option the program guide may tune set top box to the channel for the program for which the reminder was displayed step .

The program guide may allow new profiles to be created using create profile screen and set up profile screen of . The user may move highlight region between various existing profile options and new profile option using remote control cursor keys. If new profile option is selected e.g. by pressing OK on the remote control the program guide presents set up profile screen . Set up profile screen allows the user to delete profiles rename profiles activate or deactivate a profile turn the automatic reminders feature on or off adjust the preference scope for the profile and to adjust parental control settings. Highlight region may be used to select between these various options. Parental control features that may be provided by the program guide include personal identification number PIN features such as activating or deactivating a PIN for a profile selecting whether changes to preference levels requires a PIN etc.

The preference criteria selected by a user e.g. in the form of a preference profile may be used by the program guide in a number of ways. For example the program guide may use the preference criteria in a profile to restrict the number of program listings that are presented to the user regardless of what type of display format the user has chosen to view e.g. a by time listing format a by channel listing etc. . This approach may also be used by the program guide to restrict the channels or programs to which the user may tune either directly or when tuning using a special program guide feature such as a browse feature or a flip feature . Alternatively the program guide may only use the user s preferences to provide a special favorites program list. Another possibility is that the program guide use the preferences in all modes but only to restrict the movement of the highlight region on the screen not to eliminate program listings from the user s view.

As shown in the program guide may provide the user with an opportunity to select a dedicated favorites display format option at step . The dedicated favorites display format may be e.g. a time ordered list of programs that meet the criteria set forth in the currently active profile. At step the program guide may provide the user with an opportunity to select the favorites always on display mode in which all display formats and tuning modes are restricted to the programs and channels that satisfy the user s preferences. At step the program guide provides the user with the opportunity to select a display mode in which all programs are displayed but in which highlight movement is restricted to programs satisfying the user s preferences in the active profile. Alternatively the display format may be fixed by the program guide and the user not provided with options or .

An illustrative arrangement for providing the dedicated favorites display format option is shown in . In the arrangement dedicated favorites option is offered as a clickable option at the bottom of a column of display format options in a navigator menu . Other options available in navigator menu include special features options listing of pay per view programs organized by time by title etc. and viewer services options .

The type of program listings display that may be provided by the program guide when option is selected is shown in i.e. following step of . By time favorites list contains all programs that satisfy the preferences set forth in the current profile organized in a time ordered list. The user may select another profile using left and right cursors when highlight region is on profile name region . The user may modify the current preference scope using scope option .

When the user selects the always on mode option provided at step of all of the program listings display formats such as those invoked by options of are modified to display only those programs that satisfy the user s preferences. For example selecting by time option when the always on mode has been selected results in a by time favorites display of the type shown in .

In addition the programs and channels to which the program guide allows the user to tune with set top box are restricted to the programs and channels that satisfy the user s preferences when the always on mode has been selected. The programs and channels to which the user may tune are also restricted when the user is using special tuning features. For example the program guide may provide a special flip tuning feature. As shown in when the user invokes the flip mode flip display is provided over a portion of a channel i.e. channel 4 that the user is currently tuned to and is watching on display screen . Flip display contains information on programs appearing on channel . Channel is the same channel channel 4 as the channel channel 4 to which the set top box is currently tuned. The user may change channel e.g. using channel up and down keys on the remote control which also changes the channel . When the always on mode has been selected the channels to which the user may flip are generally restricted to the channels containing programs that satisfy the user s preferences. If desired the user may be provided with access to any channel e.g. by allowing the user to enter channel numbers directly.

As shown in when the user invokes the browse mode browse display is provided over a portion of a channel i.e. channel 9 which the user is currently tuned to and is watching on display screen . Browse display contains information on programs appearing on different channels . The user may change channels using up and down cursor keys without changing channel . When the always on mode has been selected the channels which the user may browse to are generally restricted to the channels containing programs that satisfy the user s preferences. If desired the user may be provided with access to any channel e.g. by allowing the user to enter channel numbers directly.

The restricted highlight movement mode option provided at step of may be used when the user is viewing a program listings screen such as screen of by pressing a key such as the favorites key to move highlight region from one program that satisfies the user s preferences e.g. Dante s Peak to the next program that satisfies the user s preferences e.g. ER . The user may be provided with access to all displayed programming e.g. by allowing the user to press regular up and down cursors to access programs that do not satisfy the user s preferences .

If desired the favorites key may be used in the flip and browse modes to advance to the next program satisfying the active profile.

To accommodate multiple active profiles the program guide may list programs using different colors patterns icons etc. to distinguish which programs satisfy which profiles. For example in the by time listings display of the programs Seinfeld Dante s Peak and ER satisfy the preference criteria in Mike s profile as indicated by the M icons and the use of the red color and first distinct pattern for the cells of the grid for those listings. The programs ER and Football satisfy the preferences in John s profile as indicated by the J icons and the use of the green color and second distinct pattern for the cells of the grid for those listings. The ER cell contains two colors two patterns and two icons indicating that the program ER satisfies the criteria in both Mike s profile and John s profile. Icons color coding and patterns are merely illustrative examples of suitable visual indicators for distinguishing which programs satisfy which profiles. These approaches may be used in any suitable combination or any other suitable approach may be used to distinguish the results satisfying different profiles.

As shown in a hot list may be provided that contains programs that match the attributes of the active profile. Hot list may be displayed on top of the channel e.g. channel 7 on display to which the user is currently tuned. The program guide may allow the user to display hot list by pressing a single key on the remote control e.g. an OK key while watching television. Any programs for which active non expired reminders have been set may be added to the hot list. In the example of a reminder was set for the 11 00 news as indicated by reminder icon so the 11 00 news was included in hot list . Hot list may be organized in start time order or any other suitable order. Priority may be given to pay per view listings. For example the program Terminator appears before the program Seinfeld in the hot list arrangement of because the program Terminator appears on a pay per view channel REQ .

After hot list is displayed the program guide may allow the user to remove hot list by pressing a single key. The program guide also allows the user to select any of the displayed programs in the list e.g. using a highlight region and tunes set top box to the appropriate channel for the selected program. When there are more programs that satisfy the user s preference profile criteria than will fit on the lower portion of the display the program guide may allow the user to scroll through the hot list entries. The program guide may remove programs from hot list when they are no longer viewable. Programs may be added to hot list by the program guide when the programs start or at a specified length of time e.g. five minutes prior to the scheduled start time of the program. The program guide may provide the user with an opportunity to select the option of displaying the hot list a short time e.g. one minute before the scheduled broadcast time of programs on the list and to adjust this length of time at step of .

If the user chooses to display the hot list sorted by start time the program guide displays the list in this fashion at step of . If the user chooses to display the hot list sorted by channel the program guide displays a channel ordered hot list at step . If the user chooses to display the hot list sorted by priority e.g. with pay per view programs listed first the program guide displays this type of listing at step .

Any profile may be assigned a PIN. As shown in the program guide may provide a personal identification number setup screen that contains a number of user selectable options regarding PIN usage. For example PIN setup screen provides an option that allows the user to indicate which profile is being modified. If a PIN has already been established for that profile the user may be required to enter that PIN at option to continue. If no PIN exists option may be used to create a new PIN.

Option allows the user to specify whether the PIN is required to activate the profile e.g. to activate the profile for Joey in the example of . Option allows the user to specify whether the PIN is required for deactivating the profile. Option allows the user to specify whether the PIN is required for viewing profile attributes. Option allows the user to specify whether the PIN is required for adding deleting or changing illegal attributes. Option allows the user to specify whether the PIN is required for adding deleting or changing mandatory attributes. Option allows the user to specify whether the PIN is required for adding deleting or changing likes and dislikes. The options shown in setup screen are illustrative only. For example if other preference levels are used options regarding PIN usage for those levels may be provided using screen . Any other suitable arrangement may be used by the program guide to allow the user to adjust PIN control levels if desired.

The arrangement of allows the user to use PIN controlled profiles for parental control. For example a parent can set up a child s profile with a restrictive set of preference attributes e.g. with a mandatory G rating and a preference level of illegal associated with the genre cartoons . By requiring that a PIN be used to deactivate the profile or to change the preference level attributes the parent can ensure that the child will only be able to watch G rated programming and no cartoons when the child s profile is active. A different profile may be created for use when the child s viewing is being closely supervised.

Particularly in situations in which parents wish to set limits on the viewing of their children it may be desirable to use a master profile that contains settings that override the settings in all other profiles. As shown in such a master profile may contain illegal preference attributes e.g. illegal ratings and mandatory preference attributes. The master profile may also contain other preference settings e.g. with various preference levels of like dislike etc. The illegal and mandatory attributes of the master profile are controlling. Accordingly even if profile Joey contains a mandatory R rating setting the illegal R rating setting in the master profile of dictates that no R rated programs will be allowed. Similarly the mandatory English setting in the master profile dictates that English is a required attribute regardless of the language setting in other profiles. Conflicts between the master profile and other profiles with respect to attributes other than mandatory and illegal attributes may also be resolved in favor of the master profile if desired.

Steps involved in using master profiles are shown in . At step the program guide provides the user with an opportunity to create or modify a master profile. Step typically involves setting up a master PIN that may be used for parental control. At step the program guide may provide the user with an opportunity to activate the master profile. One or more other profile may also be activated at step . Typically the master PIN is used to activate the master profile. Because the master PIN is generally not known by children the master PIN provides parents with global control over programming. If desired once the master PIN has been set up in the system entering the master PIN may allow the user to modify the profiles of their children.

As step the program guide resolves conflicts between the preference criteria in the various profiles in favor of the master profile. After or at the same time such conflicts are resolved the program guide may display a list of programming or allow tuning to certain channels based on the criteria in the active profiles at step .

If desired the program guide may provide an opportunity for the user to select whether the program titles descriptions etc. for programs that do not satisfy a given preference profile should be hidden from view. This feature is useful in situations in which a parent not only wishes to restrict the viewing options of a child but also wishes to prevent the child from being able to view information on programming that does not satisfy a given profile e.g. the master profile . When the user directs the program guide to block the titles and descriptions for programs that do not satisfy the profile the program guide may display a message such as restricted on various program guide display screens in place of the program listings for the blocked programs. The option of replacing non favorite program listings with a restricted message may be placed under master PIN control.

Another feature provided by the program guide relates to profile settings for non program items. For example a profile setting may be used to define various audio settings for user television equipment stereo mono Dolby on off bass and treble settings etc. as shown in . Display settings such as brightness contrast the language of the text displayed in the program guide etc. may also be associated with a given profile e.g. the profile Mike . Audio settings and display settings are examples of non program settings that may be associated with a profile. If desired other suitable non program settings may also be associated with a profile.

As shown in the program guide may provide the user with an opportunity for setting program settings preference attributes preference levels preference scope etc. for a given profile at step . At step the program guide may provide the user with an opportunity to set non program settings associated with that profile. At step the program guide may provide an opportunity to activate the profile. At step the user television equipment and the program guide are operated using the non program settings.

Because the program guide knows which profile is active e.g. Mike or Joey etc. at a given time the program guide may use this information in providing various services. For example the program guide may provide access to a program guide e mail service or other messaging service using information about which profile is currently active step . This allows a user to access e mail for example without having to separately log into the e mail service. If Mike s profile is currently active the program guide can retrieve messages addressed to Mike. If Joey s profile is active the program guide can provide access to Joey s messages. If more than one profile is active the program guide can provide access to the messaging service to the users of all active profiles or may require that each user log in separately.

The foregoing is merely illustrative of the principles of this invention and various modifications can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

