---

title: Reinforced slewing bearing
abstract: A bearing assembly for a first part that rotates with respect to a second part may include a slewing bearing having an axis of rotation and inner and outer races concentric with the axis of rotation. The inner race may be fixed to the first part and the outer race may be fixed to the second part. An inner, annular catch ring may be fixed to and adjacent to a lower surface of the inner race. An outer, annular catch ring may be fixed to and interposed between a lower surface of the outer race and the second part. A portion of the outer catch ring may be disposed below and adjacent to the lower surface of the inner race.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08678655&OS=08678655&RS=08678655
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08678655
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120411
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

The invention relates in general to slewing bearings and in particular to slewing bearings that can withstand severe loads without separation.

Personnel transport vehicles may be equipped with a rotating turret. Examples of military personnel transport vehicles with rotating turrets include the High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle HMMWV the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected MRAP and the MRAP All Terrain Vehicle M ATV . The rotating turret may be mounted to the inner race of a large slewing bearing. In some vehicles the turret may include a gun such as a .50 caliber machine gun a sling seat for the gunner and extra armor mounted on the turret or around the turret to protect the gunner. Because of the weight and size of the extra armor the slewing bearing may separate during a catastrophic event such as a vehicle rollover.

Manufacturers have produced large slewing bearings of various designs for cranes excavators windmills and other heavy machinery. Special design considerations exist for stewing bearings for rotating turrets on military vehicles. The slewing bearing on a military vehicle needs to be blast resistant. Ideally the slewing bearing must be able to withstand severe loads and support protective armor while being lightweight in construction. The bearing must be able to withstand the transient impulse loads that result from traversing off road environments. The off road environments may be traversed at various speeds and the bearing may experience impact and blast loads.

Yet the bearing should be as lightweight as possible to minimize the additional weight on the vehicle s suspension. In the past such slewing bearings have been constructed mostly of aluminum which may be limited in both strength and stiffness. Because of the size and weight limitations of the slewing bearing in a personnel transport vehicle the options for handling dynamic thrust loads are limited.

It is an object of the invention to provide a slewing bearing assembly for a personnel vehicle that can withstand large dynamic thrust loads.

One aspect of the invention is a bearing assembly for a first part that rotates with respect to a second part. The bearing assembly may include a slewing bearing having an axis of rotation and inner and outer races concentric with the axis of rotation. The inner race may be fixed to the first part and the outer race may be fixed to the second part. An inner annular catch ring may be fixed to and adjacent to a lower surface of the inner race and concentric with the axis of rotation. An outer annular catch ring may be fixed to and interposed between a lower surface of the outer race and the second part. The outer annular catch ring may be concentric with the axis of rotation. A portion of the outer catch ring may be disposed below and adjacent to the lower surface of the inner race.

The inner catch ring may include a circumferential radially outermost surface that is angled inwardly with respect to the axis of rotation of the slewing bearing. The outer catch ring may include a circumferential radially innermost surface that is substantially parallel to the radially outermost surface of the inner catch ring. The radially outermost surface of the inner catch ring and the radially innermost surface of the outer catch ring may define a gap there between. Upon deformation of the slewing bearing the gap may close and the radially outermost surface of the inner ring may contact the radially innermost surface of the outer catch ring.

In one embodiment the first part may be a rotating turret and the second part may be a body portion of a vehicle.

Another aspect of the invention is bearing assembly for a first part that rotates with respect to a second part. The bearing assembly may include a slewing bearing having an axis of rotation and inner and outer races concentric with the axis of rotation. The inner race may be fixed to the first part and the outer race may be fixed to the second part. The inner race may include a circumferential surface angled inwardly with respect to the axis of rotation and concentric with the axis of rotation. A portion of the outer race may extend radially inward and be juxtaposed below a portion of the inner race. The portion of the outer race may include a circumferential surface that is substantially parallel to the angled circumferential surface of the inner race.

The circumferential surfaces of the inner and outer races may define a gap there between. Upon deformation of the slewing bearing the gap may close and the circumferential surface of the inner race may contact the circumferential surface of the outer race.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

A known slewing bearing may be strengthened by adding extra features to the bearing to create a reinforced or augmented slewing bearing. The augmented slewing bearing may be able to withstand the impulsive thrust loading encountered by a personnel vehicle during a roll over or a blast event.

The augmented slewing bearing may include a subassembly of two annular rings that nest one inside the other and mount on the underside or top of a known slewing bearing. The two rings may be an inner ring and an outer ring. In some embodiments the inner and outer rings may meet at an angled interface. The angled interface may be similar to for example a dovetail joint. The two nested rings may be placed so that they capture a rotating turret. Separation of the turret from the vehicle may require that one or both of the nested rings shear off more than halfway around their circumference or that all of the mounting bolts on at least one of the rings fail.

The outer ring may be mounted between the underside of an outer bearing race and a part of the vehicle such as the roof of the vehicle. The inner ring may be mounted on the underside of the inner bearing race. Under normal loading conditions there may be a clearance between the contact faces of the inner and outer rings so that the performance of the slewing bearing is not hindered in any way. Under significant thrust load however the slewing bearing may deflect to take up the load. Deflection of the slewing bearing may cause the inner and outer rings to come into contact. In this way the inner and outer rings may augment the axial load carrying capacity of the slewing bearing. The axial load carrying capacity may require such augmentation during the dynamic thrust loading of a catastrophic event.

The inner and outer rings may be made of a material having a combination of high strength and high ductility. A material for the inner ring may be for example aluminum steel or titanium. The relatively light weight of aluminum may minimize any increase in rotational inertia of the turret. Steel and titanium may provide additional strength. A material for the outer ring may be for example aluminum steel or titanium. The material for the inner and outer rings may have a combination of high strength and high ductility. The choice of a specific material may depend on the specific application design loads and ring geometry.

A drive ring may be fixed between spacer ring and outer bearing race . Drive ring may include gear teeth . Gear teeth may mesh with an electric motor not shown to slew turret . Drive ring may be disposed atop spacer ring . Spacer ring may provide stiffness to bearing overall assembly. Spacer ring may provide a flat surface to thereby level wavy body portion . Outer bearing race drive ring and spacer ring may be fixed to body portion using fasteners. For clarity the fastener through holes in drive ring spacer ring and body portion are not shown in .

An inner annular catch ring shown with section hatching for clarity may be fixed to and adjacent to a lower surface of inner race . Inner catch ring may abut lower surface of inner race . Inner catch ring may be concentric with axis of rotation X. Inner catch ring may be fixed to inner race using for example fasteners . An outer annular catch ring shown with section hatching for clarity may be fixed to and interposed between a lower surface of outer race and body portion of vehicle . Outer catch ring may be concentric with axis of rotation X.

A portion of outer catch ring may be disposed below and adjacent to lower surface of inner race . Portion of outer catch ring may be juxtaposed to lower surface of inner race . Portion of outer catch ring may abut lower surface of inner race . Drive ring may be disposed between body portion and outer catch ring . Outer race outer catch ring and drive ring may be fixed to body portion using for example fasteners such as fasteners . For clarity the fastener through holes in drive ring outer catcher ring and body portion are not shown in .

Inner catch ring may include a radially outermost surface . Surface may be angled inwardly with respect to axis of rotation X. Outer catch ring may include a radially innermost surface . Surface may be angled and may be substantially parallel to radially outermost surface of inner catch ring . An angle A between axis of rotation X and radially outermost surface of inner catch ring may be in a range of about 30 to about 60 degrees. In some embodiments angle A may be in range of about 40 to about 50 degrees.

Radially outermost surface of inner catch ring and radially innermost surface of outer catch ring may define a gap G there between. Smaller thrust loads may be adequately absorbed by inner and outer races and bearings . When a large thrust load is applied to turret one or both of inner and outer races may deform. Deformation of one or both of races may cause gap G to narrow. If the deformation is large gap G may close and radially outermost surface of inner ring may contact and bear on radially innermost surface of outer catch ring . Contact of surfaces may augment the load carrying capacity of the assembly. If the thrust load is removed gap G may widen and may return to its original width. The vertical motion of turret may be constrained because outer catch ring is captured between inner bearing race and inner catcher ring .

Initial testing indicates that inner and outer catcher rings enable turret to successfully endure otherwise catastrophic thrust loads.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

For example those of skill in the art may ascertain that other geometries for the inner and outer rings may fit in the limited space in a turret. In one known turret the available axial height for the inner and outer rings is only about 0.5 to about 1.0 inch. The invention may be incorporated into other slewing bearing functions where high axial shock loads occur such as for example earth moving equipment etc. Furthermore inner and outer catch rings may be formed integrally with inner and outer races respectively.

