---

title: System and method for transporting digital baseband streams in a network environment
abstract: A method is provided in example embodiments that include receiving a radio signal stream and segmenting the radio signal stream into segments. The segments may be packetized and transported in packets over a pseudowire in a packet-switched network. The radio signal stream can be reconstructed from the segments. In more particular embodiments, the pseudowire may be a multi-protocol label switching pseudowire or a layer 2 tunneling protocol pseudowire, for example. In yet other specific example embodiments, the radio signal stream may be received using a common public radio interface or a femtocell application programming interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08964641&OS=08964641&RS=08964641
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 08964641
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120610
---
This disclosure relates in general to the field of communications and more particularly to a system and a method for transporting digital baseband data streams in a network environment.

Networking architectures have grown increasingly complex in communications environments particularly mobile wireless environments. Network service providers also continue to steadily increasing their wireless service offerings to provide better coverage of specialized spaces. This includes the deployment and integration of WiMAX WiFi metrocells microcells picocells and femtocells for example which can be linked to backhaul networks. However many challenges remain in integrating fronthaul communications with backhaul networks some of these challenges may include cost reduction maintainability and technological interworking.

A method is provided in one example embodiment that includes receiving a radio signal stream and segmenting the radio signal stream into segments e.g. blocks of data pieces of information bits of data etc. . The segments may be packetized and transported in packets over a pseudowire in a packet switched network. The radio signal stream can be reconstructed from the segments. In more particular embodiments the pseudowire may be a multi protocol label switching pseudowire or a layer 2 tunneling protocol pseudowire for example. In yet other specific example embodiments the radio signal stream may be received using a common public radio interface or a femtocell application programming interface. In yet other embodiments the method may include parsing a particular one of the segments for encapsulation into a packet payload. A control word is prepended to the particular one of the segments to identify an order in which the segments can be reassembled by a reconstructor provisioned along a downstream path in the packet switched network.

Turning to is a simplified block diagram of an example embodiment of a communication system in which a radio signal may be transported over a packet switched network in accordance with this specification. A radio equipment controller such as radio equipment controller REC may be connected to radio equipment such as radio equipment RE through pseudowire connections such as pseudowires . A backhaul communication path interconnects REC with a service provider network . further illustrates various topologies that may be associated with communication system including a branch topology a ring topology a chain topology and a point to point topology . In certain embodiments REC and REs of communication system may be representative of a fronthaul wireless network topology in a distributed antenna architecture DAA in which REC may control the operation of antennas e.g. REs in such an architecture.

Before detailing the operations and the infrastructure of certain contextual information is provided to offer an overview of the types of communications traversing communication system . Such information is offered earnestly and for teaching purposes only and therefore should not be construed in any way to limit the broad applications for the present disclosure. In some wireless communication environments specialized deployments may be needed to meet customer coverage requirements. For example indoor spaces may not be conducive to radio transmission or a full macrocell deployment may not be economically justifiable in less populated areas. Other mobile ad hoc networks MANETs may require a specialized deployment because of environmental or QoS factors for example. Generally such specialized connections are made using expensive highly specialized optical or coax based time division multiplexing TDM architectures. As the coverage radius of RE decreases the expected traffic load from any particular RE site diminishes the number of RE sites increases and conventional point to point methods of interconnection become economically undesirable.

A distributed antenna architecture is an evolving alternative to such conventional architectures. A distributed antenna architecture can provide a network of spatially separated antenna nodes e.g. REs connected to a common controller e.g. REC via a transport medium that provides wireless service within a geographic area or structure. Radio signals to and from the common controller can be passed through a system of multiple antennas. There are a number of different types of distributed antenna architectures each with their own characteristics. Passive DAA for example may be characterized by combining radio signals with passive components such as filters splitters and couplers. Active DAA is another example in which radio signals may be converted and distributed over fiber links. In yet another example hybrid DAA may combine features of passive DAA and active DAA. Distributed antenna architectures may be particularly advantageous within a building or across a large urban area. In a large urban area for example street level DAA can provide a very efficient solution for large urban regeneration projects that may require dense coverage. They can also be provided in other busy areas such as airports or other mass transit hubs.

In some distributed antenna architectures such as a cloud radio access network CRAN architecture radio processing functions may be centralized to resolve some power efficiency and resource utilization concerns with many intelligent radio cell site architectures. In general a CRAN architecture provides a remote radio head such as REs placed in close proximity to an antenna or may be integrated with an antenna . A remote radio head can translate a radio signal into a digital bit stream which can travel greater distances without loss. The digital signals from a remote radio head can be transmitted over a fronthaul to a centralized baseband processing unit which effectively shifts processing from the antenna and allows operators to pool and share processor bandwidth across remote radio heads. A controller e.g. an REC a base station controller radio network controller etc. may also be co located with the baseband processing to aggregate from cell sites and manage the radio access network.

The controller generally provides the network interface transport radio base station control and management and digital baseband processing whereas the remote radio head can provide the analog radio frequency functions such as filtering modulation frequency conversion and amplification. The functional split between both parts is done in such a way that a generic interface based on In phase and Quadrature IQ data can be defined.

CRAN can also reduce the number of cell sites while increasing the base station deployment density. By making a remote radio head an active unit capable of converting from analog to digital operators can place numerous controllers in a single geographical point while distributing radio heads according to the radio frequency RF plans. Active electronics of multiple cell sites can be centralized at one location thereby reducing energy real estate and security costs. Radio heads can be mounted outdoor or indoor on poles sides of buildings or anywhere a power and a broadband connection exist making installation less costly and easier. The remote radio heads become an intelligent antenna array which not only can submit radio signals but can also handle the conversion between digital and analog data. A remote radio head can also support multiple cellular generations e.g. 2G 3G and LTE eliminating the need for multiple antennas.

In an evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN for example the controller can provide access to the Evolved Packet Core for the transport of user plane and control plane traffic via the S1 interface whereas a remote radio head can serve as the air interface to the user equipment. In another example a controller can provide access to network entities e.g. other base stations or an access service network gateway ASN GW in a WiMAX network whereas the radio head can serve as the air interface to the subscriber station mobile subscriber station SS MSS .

Common Public Radio Interface CPRI is a standard for transporting digital radio signal streams i.e. radio signals converted to a digital bit stream in a CRAN architecture over a link between a remote radio head and a baseband processing unit. In more general CPRI terms a remote radio head is commonly referred to as radio equipment RE and a baseband processing unit and or controller is referred to as radio equipment control REC . User plane data control and management C M data and synchronization signals can be exchanged between the REC and the RE. Flows can be multiplexed onto a digital serial communication line using appropriate layer 1 and layer 2 protocols. The different information flows can access layer 2 via appropriate service access points. CPRI may also be used as a link between two nodes in system architectures supporting networking.

In general terms CPRI provides a basic protocol hierarchy with functions running at Layer 1 i.e. electrical or optical transmission and time division multiplexing TDM and Layer 2. Layer 2 can include In Phase and Quadrature IQ data vendor specific information Ethernet High level Data Link Control HDLC L1 Inband Protocol control and management C M data and synchronization. A basic layer 1 frame of CPRI generally consists of sixteen words the length of which depends on the CPRI line bit rate. The first word is used as a control word which is transmitted first. The control word can identify the type of stream e.g. user plane C M synchronization and the number of sub streams carried within the stream. Hence the term word represents broad terminology inclusive of any type of identifier symbol electronic object signature etc. that can be associated with a given stream. The stream itself can represent any type of data being propagated between two points.

Other architectures protocols and interfaces may also provide for transporting digital radio signal streams over a link between a remote radio head and a baseband processing unit or controller. Femtocells for example may be particularly advantageous in specialized spaces including indoors. A common femtocell interface may be provided between radio frequency functions and baseband processing to enable interoperability of components from different manufacturers. One such standard commonly referred as the Femtocell Application Programming Interface or FAPI has been proposed that includes a security coprocessor interface a service discovery interface a GPS interface a network listen results interface a PHY mode control interface a ciphering coprocessor interface a main data path interface and a scheduler interface.

The Open Base Station Architecture Initiative OBSAI is another example of a family of specifications that provides the architecture function descriptions and minimum requirements for integration of a set of common modules into a base transceiver station BTS . As a minimum the BTS can be configured from a set of common modules in order to support one or more current or future wireless network access standards. The technical requirements contained in the OBSAI family of specifications form an interface specification to ensure compatibility and interoperability among and between the set of common modules.

Yet other examples include a standard from VME International Trade Association VITA 49 and the Open Radio Equipment Interface OREI . VITA 49 is an interconnect standard for passing intermediate frequency IF data between analog front ends and digital signal processor subsystems in a digital link agnostic format. OREI is defined by the Industry Specification Group as a method for standardizing the communications interface of distributed radio equipment for mobile communication networks. In general OREI covers those layers of a network stack required to enable interoperability and may be built on other publicly available specifications including CPRI.

While distributed antenna architectures and radio interfaces may provide many advantages and benefits for fronthaul the radio interfaces themselves are generally TDM based Layer 1 Layer 2 protocols. Consequently implementing such an architecture for fronthaul applications presents significant challenges for integration with packet based backhaul deployments.

In accordance with embodiments described herein communication system can overcome these challenges and others by providing a system and method for transporting radio signal streams over a packet switched network. More particularly communication system may provide a pseudowire for transporting a digital radio signal stream between a remote radio head and a baseband processing unit e.g. using Multi Protocol Label Switching MPLS or Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol version 3 L2TPv3 .

A pseudowire is an emulation of a point to point connection over a packet switched network PSN . A pseudowire emulates the operation of a transparent wire carrying the service. The service being carried over the transparent wire may be CPRI FAPI OBSAI VITA 49 OREI asynchronous transfer mode ATM frame relay Ethernet TDM or any other connection oriented synchronous or plesiochronous links. An example of a pseudowire is described in Request for Comments RFC 3985 published by the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF . A pseudowire may operate over many types of PSNs including MPLS or L2TPv3 over IP as well as a user datagram protocol UDP over IPv4 or IPv6 MPLS L2TPv3 over IP and Ethernet for example.

In broad terms MPLS is a routing protocol. More particularly MPLS is also a highly scalable protocol agnostic data carrying mechanism. In an MPLS network data packets can be assigned labels. Packet forwarding decisions can be made solely on the contents of this label without the need to examine the packet itself. End to end circuits can be created across any type of transport medium using any protocol. MPLS can eliminate dependence on a particular networking model data link layer technology and eliminate the need for multiple layer 2 networks to satisfy different types of traffic. A label distribution protocol LDP such as described in IETF RFC 5036 and or a resource reservation protocol for traffic engineering RSVP TE such as described in IETF RFC 3209 may be used for pseudowire setup. Moreover MPLS can also integrate operations administration and management OAM with the pseudowire which may be particularly advantageous for diagnosing remote connections end to end.

MPLS operates at a layer that is generally considered to lie between traditional definitions of layer 2 data link layer and layer 3 network layer and thus is often referred to as a layer 2.5 protocol. It can provide a unified data carrying service for both circuit based clients and packet switching clients that provide a datagram service model. It can be used to carry many different kinds of traffic including Internet Protocol IP packets as well as native ATM synchronous optical networking SONET and Ethernet frames.

L2TP is an encapsulation technique that allows packets to be transported between a pair of endpoints inside IP packets. L2TPv3 is an IETF standard see RFC 3931 related to L2TP that can be used as an alternative to MPLS for encapsulation of multiprotocol Layer 2 communications traffic over IP networks. Like L2TP L2TPv3 provides a pseudowire service but scaled to fit carrier requirements. L2TPv3 can also provide end to end encryption which avoids the need to separately encrypt each radio signal stream.

In certain example embodiments a wireless access point may be configured as a remote radio head e.g. an RE in a distributed antenna architecture such as CRAN using various radio interface specifications to transport digital radio signal streams over a pseudowire between the wireless access point and radio equipment control e.g. a baseband processing unit or controller . A signal stream does not necessarily have channelization framing or other timing structures such that it can include unstructured synchronous serial data as well as structured synchronous data. Thus for example wireless access points such as REs in communication system may receive radio signal streams from endpoints and transport them to a centralized baseband processing unit or controller such as REC using CPRI over an MPLS or L2TPv3 pseudowire. Such endpoints may be associated with subscribers clients or customers wishing to access communication system for example.

The term endpoint or node may be inclusive of devices used to initiate a communication such as a computer any type of user equipment any type of mobile station any type of smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop or electronic notebook a cellular telephone an iPhone an iPad a Google Android phone an Internet Protocol IP phone or any other device component element or object capable of initiating voice audio or data exchanges within communication system . Endpoints may also be inclusive of a suitable interface to the human user such as a microphone a display or a keyboard or other terminal equipment.

Endpoints may also be any device that seeks to initiate a communication on behalf of another entity or element such as a program a database or any other component device element or object capable of initiating a voice or a data exchange within communication system . Data as used herein refers to any type of numeric voice or script data or any type of source or object code or any other suitable information in any appropriate format that may be communicated from one point to another.

In some example implementations REC REs IWFs and or other elements of communication system are network elements which are meant to encompass network appliances servers routers switches gateways bridges load balancers firewalls base stations access points processors modules or any other suitable device component element or object operable to exchange information in a network environment. Moreover the network elements may include any suitable hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof. This may be inclusive of appropriate algorithms and communication protocols that allow for the effective exchange of data or information.

In regard to the internal structure associated with elements of communication system REC REs IWFs and or other elements can include memory elements for storing information to be used in the operations outlined herein. Each of REC REs IWFs and or other elements may keep information in any suitable memory element e.g. random access memory RAM read only memory ROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM application specific integrated circuit ASIC etc. software hardware or in any other suitable component device element or object where appropriate and based on particular needs. Any of the memory items discussed herein should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term memory element. The information being used tracked sent or received by REC REs IWFs and or other elements could be provided in any database register queue table cache control list or other storage structure all of which can be referenced at any suitable timeframe. Any such storage options may be included within the broad term memory element as used herein.

In certain example implementations the functions outlined herein may be implemented by logic encoded in one or more tangible media e.g. embedded logic provided in an ASIC digital signal processor DSP instructions software potentially inclusive of object code and source code to be executed by a processor or other similar machine etc. which may be inclusive of non transitory media. This includes the memory elements being able to store software logic code or processor instructions that are executed to carry out the activities described herein.

In one example implementation REC REs IWFs and or other elements may include firmware and or software modules to achieve or to foster operations as outlined herein. In other embodiments such operations may be carried out by hardware implemented externally to these elements or included in some other network device to achieve the intended functionality. Alternatively these elements may include software or reciprocating software that can coordinate in order to achieve the operations as outlined herein. In still other embodiments one or all of these devices may include any suitable algorithms hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof.

Additionally REC REs IWFs and or other elements may include a processor that can execute software or an algorithm to perform activities as discussed herein. A processor can execute any type of instructions associated with the data to achieve the operations detailed herein. In one example the activities outlined herein may be implemented with fixed logic or programmable logic e.g. software computer instructions executed by a processor and the elements identified herein could be some type of a programmable processor programmable digital logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an EPROM an EEPROM or an ASIC that includes digital logic software code electronic instructions or any suitable combination thereof. Any of the potential processing elements modules and machines described herein should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term processor. 

In this example IWFT includes a stream segmentor a stream adapter a control word prefixer and an encapsulator operating in the ingress direction of PSN . Segmentor can parse an incoming contiguous stream into finite sized data segments suitable in size to be encapsulated into a packet payload. In this example embodiment stream adapter may provide data to assist in timing recovery and recovery from packet loss and to ensure proper transfer of stream signaling. Control word prefixer may prepend to a segment post adaption a control word that helps identify the order in which segments should be reassembled by a reconstructor at the other end of a unidirectional downstream path. Encapsulator may encapsulate the payload data with a network header such as an IP header and a pseudowire header such as an MPLS or L2TPv3 header.

IWFT may include a decapsulator a control word analyzer and stripper a stream adaption analyzer and a reconstructor operating in the egress direction of PSN . Decapsulator may be used to analyze and remove network and pseudowire headers e.g. IP MPLS or IP L2TPv3 headers . Control word analyzer and stripper can strip control words and reorder the arriving stream payloads so they can be appropriately ordered e.g. into a contiguous stream . Stream adaption analyzer may analyze and strip adaption data so that the proper timing and packet loss recovery modes of the stream can be implemented. Reconstructor can reconstruct the stripped and ordered payloads into a contiguous stream.

A radio signal stream may be received at and parsed into segments at suitable in size to be encapsulated into a packet payload. Packet loss and timing recovery data may be integrated into the segments at . A control word may be prepended to a segment at which can identify the order in which segments should be reassembled by a reconstructor at the other end of a downstream path. At segments may be encapsulated with a network header such as an IP header and a pseudowire header such as an MPLS or L2TPv3 header. The packetized segments may then be transported over a PSN at to another radio element for example.

A packet carrying a radio signal stream segment may be received at . Network and pseudowire headers may be analyzed and removed at . Control words can be stripped and payloads reordered at so they can be appropriately ordered into a contiguous stream. Adaption data may be analyzed and stripped at so that the proper timing and packet loss recovery modes of the stream can be implemented. The stripped and ordered payloads can be reconstructed into a contiguous stream at and transmitted at .

Embodiments of communication system may provide significant advantages some of which have already been discussed. For example embodiments of communication system can be deployed as a fronthaul using networking elements common in IP backhaul networks. Communication system can support geographical distribution of controllers and radio equipment and allow operators to deploy distributed antenna architectures over PSNs while reducing manufacturing and deployment expense. Further communication system may also allow small cells to be tightly integrated into mobile carrier networks with a common cloud based signal processing system.

Note that with the examples provided above as well as numerous other examples provided herein interaction may be described in terms of two three or four network elements. However this has been done for purposes of clarity and example only. In certain cases it may be easier to describe one or more of the functionalities of a given set of flows by only referencing a limited number of network elements. It should be appreciated that communication system and its teachings are readily scalable and can accommodate a large number of components as well as more complicated sophisticated arrangements and configurations. Accordingly the examples provided should not limit the scope or inhibit the broad teachings of communication system as potentially applied to a myriad of other architectures. Additionally although described with reference to particular scenarios where a particular module such as a participation level module is provided within a network element these modules can be provided externally or consolidated and or combined in any suitable fashion. In certain instances such modules may be provided in a single proprietary unit.

It is also important to note that the operations in the appended diagrams illustrate only some of the possible signaling scenarios and patterns that may be executed by or within communication system . Some of these operations may be deleted or removed where appropriate or these operations may be modified or changed considerably without departing from the scope of teachings provided herein. In addition a number of these operations have been described as being executed concurrently with or in parallel to one or more additional operations. However the timing of these operations may be altered considerably. The preceding operational flows have been offered for purposes of example and discussion. Substantial flexibility is provided by communication system in that any suitable arrangements chronologies configurations and timing mechanisms may be provided without departing from the teachings provided herein.

Numerous other changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be ascertained to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as falling within the scope of the appended claims. In order to assist the United States Patent and Trademark Office USPTO and additionally any readers of any patent issued on this application in interpreting the claims appended hereto Applicant wishes to note that the Applicant a does not intend any of the appended claims to invoke paragraph six 6 of 35 U.S.C. section 112 as it exists on the date of the filing hereof unless the words means for or step for are specifically used in the particular claims and b does not intend by any statement in the specification to limit this disclosure in any way that is not otherwise reflected in the appended claims.

