---

title: Method and system for routing transactions to a mobile-commerce platform
abstract: A method and system for routing transactions to a mobile-commerce platform is described. One illustrative embodiment receives, via a network, a purchase request from a user's mobile communication device; authenticates the user to the mobile-commerce platform; generates a one-time-use perishable transaction code associated with the purchase request; prefixes to the transaction code an Issuer Identification Number (IIN) corresponding to the mobile-commerce platform to form a combined number; returns the combined number to the user's mobile communication device via the network to enable the user to provide the combined number to a merchant's point-of-sale system in connection with a transaction corresponding to the purchase request; and receives, via a payment network in communication with the merchant's point-of-sale system, the transaction code and transaction details associated with the transaction, the IIN informing the payment network to route the one-time-use perishable transaction code and the transaction details to the mobile-commerce platform.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08725580&OS=08725580&RS=08725580
owner: Mocapay, Inc.
number: 08725580
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121101
---
The present invention is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 897 543 filed Oct. 4 2010 by Hurst et al. entitled Method and System for Routing Transactions to a Mobile Commerce Platform which claims priority from commonly owned and assigned U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 248 767 filed on Oct. 5 2009 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

The present invention relates generally to electronic commerce. In particular but not by way of limitation the present invention relates to methods and systems for routing transactions to a mobile commerce platform.

Mobile commerce platforms permit consumers to purchase goods or services from merchants using a wireless mobile device such as a cellular telephone. Some mobile commerce platforms require merchants to install additional software in their point or sale POS systems to permit direct communication between the POS systems and the mobile commerce platform over a network.

Some merchants particularly larger merchants with many stores are not always willing to install the necessary software in their POS systems to support such mobile commerce platforms. This prevents consumers from making purchases via the mobile commerce platform at some of the most well known merchants. There is thus a need in the art to overcome this limitation.

Illustrative embodiments of the present invention that are shown in the drawings are summarized below. These and other embodiments are more fully described in the Detailed Description section. It is to be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the forms described in this Summary of the Invention or in the Detailed Description. One skilled in the art can recognize that there are numerous modifications equivalents and alternative constructions that fall within the spirit and scope of the invention as expressed in the claims.

The present invention can provide a method and system for routing transactions to a mobile commerce platform. One illustrative embodiment is a system for routing transactions to a mobile commerce platform comprising at least one processor and a memory connected with the at least one processor the memory containing a plurality of program instructions configured to cause the at least one processor to receive via a network a purchase request from a user s mobile communication device authenticate the user to the mobile commerce platform generate a one time use perishable transaction code associated with the purchase request prefix to the one time use perishable transaction code an Issuer Identification Number IIN to form a combined number the IIN corresponding to the mobile commerce platform return the combined number to the user s mobile communication device via the network to enable the user to provide the combined number to a merchant s point of sale system in connection with a transaction corresponding to the purchase request and receive via a payment network in communication with the merchant s point of sale system the one time use perishable transaction code and transaction details associated with the transaction corresponding to the purchase request the IIN informing the payment network to route the one time use perishable transaction code and the transaction details to the mobile commerce platform.

Another illustrative embodiment is a computer server based method for routing transactions to a mobile commerce platform comprising receiving via a network at the computer server a purchase request from a user s mobile communication device wherein the computer server is part of the mobile commerce platform authenticating the user to the mobile commerce platform generating a one time use perishable transaction code associated with the purchase request prefixing to the one time use perishable transaction code an Issuer Identification Number IIN to form a combined number the IIN corresponding to the mobile commerce platform returning the combined number to the user s mobile communication device via the network to enable the user to provide the combined number to a merchant s point of sale system in connection with a transaction corresponding to the purchase request and receiving via a payment network in communication with the merchant s point of sale system the one time use perishable transaction code and transaction details associated with the transaction corresponding to the purchase request the IIN informing the payment network to route the one time use perishable transaction code and the transaction details to the mobile commerce platform.

Yet another illustrative embodiment is a computerized method for routing transactions to a mobile commerce platform comprising communicating with the mobile commerce platform via a network using a mobile communication device to request a one time use perishable transaction code in connection with a purchase from a merchant receiving at the mobile communication device a combined number from the mobile commerce platform the combined number including an Issuer Identification Number IIN and the one time use perishable transaction code wherein the IIN is a prefix to the one time use perishable transaction code and the IIN corresponds to the mobile commerce platform for transaction routing purposes and providing the combined number to the merchant s point of sale system.

The methods of the invention can also be embodied at least in part in a plurality of program instructions executable by at least one processor that are stored on a computer readable storage medium.

In various illustrative embodiments of the invention the lack of a direct connection between a merchant s point of sale POS system and a mobile commerce platform is overcome by preceding the mobile commerce platform s one time use perishable transaction codes with an International Organization for Standardization ISO Issuer Identification Number IIN . The consumer provides the combined IIN and transaction code to the merchant s POS system like a typical credit or debit card number and the IIN enables the transaction to be routed to the mobile commerce platform correctly via existing payment networks.

Referring now to the drawings where like or similar elements are designated with identical reference numerals throughout the several views and referring in particular to it is a functional block diagram of an environment in which various illustrative embodiments of the invention can be implemented. Environment includes network which interconnects one or more merchants one or more wireless carriers e.g. SPRINT T MOBILE AT T etc. and mobile commerce platform . In some embodiments network includes but is not necessarily limited to the Internet. Merchant sells goods services or both at traditional brick and mortar stores on line or both at traditional brick and mortar stores and on line.

Mobile device associated with a particular user can communicate with the various nodes of network via wireless carrier . Specifically the user can use mobile device to purchase goods or services from a merchant by interacting with mobile commerce platform over network in a manner that will be explained below. Depending on the particular embodiment mobile device can be a cellular telephone Personal Communication Service PCS phone Personal Digital Assistant PDA or other portable communication device.

Referring now to mobile device user can use a variety of different access methods such as Short Message Service SMS messages Multimedia Message Service MMS messages Wireless Access Protocol WAP an application or voice to obtain one time use perishable transaction codes hereinafter transaction codes from mobile commerce platform in making payments to merchants using any of a variety of different tenders . Mobile device user can also use a variety of methods including the above examples to provide a transaction code to merchant POS in making electronic purchases .

Merchant POS system receives payment authorizations from mobile commerce platform which communicates with various payment systems in executing transactions sales credits debits transfers etc. . Payment systems typically include credit card debit card gift card and alternative payment e.g. PAYPAL systems.

When mobile device user makes a purchase mobile device user contacts mobile commerce platform using any of a variety of access methods e.g. SMS MMS WAP or other browser technology application voice and mobile commerce platform authenticates mobile device user .

Mobile commerce platform provides mobile device user with transaction codes and balances for various tenders available to that user. A given transaction code may be used only once in connection with a particular purchase and it automatically expires becomes invalid if it is not used within a predetermined period after the user receives it. Mobile device user selects a specific tender e.g. gift card credit card debit card PAYPAL etc. to be used in making the purchase. The mobile payments enabled merchant submits from merchant POS system the transaction code provided by mobile device user and the transaction amount to mobile commerce platform . Mobile commerce platform approves the transaction based on the merchant identifier the transaction amount and recognition of the transaction code. If everything checks out when mobile commerce platform executes the transaction with the applicable entity among payment systems mobile commerce platform transmits a return authorization to the merchant s POS system completing the transaction.

Mobile commerce platforms such as that just described above in connection with are described in greater detail in U.S. Pat. No. 7 657 489 Systems and Method for Secure Wireless Payment Transactions and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 343 423 System and Method for Distributing Mobile Gift Cards both of which are incorporated herein by reference both were included as appendixes in U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 248 767 cited above in the Priority section .

In the embodiment shown in merchant POS system is in direct communication with processors and payments networks as is typical of most merchants. Processors or acquirers are third party entities that process credit and debit card transactions for merchants. Examples include without limitation BANK OF AMERICA and TRANSFIRST. Credit debit card companies such as VISA MASTERCARD DISCOVER and AMERICAN EXPRESS have their own payment networks to which such third party processors can forward credit or debit card transactions received from merchants. Such payment networks are in turn connected with issuing banks not shown in in the case of VISA and MASTERCARD banks are also involved in the case of DISCOVER and AMERICAN EXPRESS but those banks are not the credit or debit card issuers .

In the credit debit card industry the leading digits of the account number on the card called the Issuer Identification Number IIN uniquely identifies the entity that issued the card and is used by acquirers processors and payment networks to route transactions to the correct issuing entity over the network. IINs are assigned to issuing institutions in accordance with an International Organization for Standardization ISO standard. An IIN is typically six digits long. The entire credit debit card account number is typically 16 digits long for VISA and MASTERCARD and 15 18 digits long for DISCOVER and AMERICAN EXPRESS.

In the embodiment shown in the owners of mobile commerce platform have established business relationships with one or more acquirers processors and payment networks VISA MASTERCARD DISCOVER AMEX etc. to recognise an IIN that corresponds to mobile commerce platform . This IIN permits transactions intended for mobile commerce platform to be routed via existing payment networks see in from merchant POS system to mobile commerce platform thus obviating the need for direct communication between merchant POS and mobile commerce platform . Such an arrangement serves to route transactions to mobile commerce platform even though mobile commerce platform might not itself be a card issuing entity.

Referring to it is a diagram showing a combined Issuer Identification Number IIN and transaction code combined number in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the invention. When a mobile device user contacts mobile commerce platform to carry out a purchase from a merchant using mobile device instead of returning to mobile device just the transaction code discussed above in connection with mobile commerce platform adds the IIN corresponding to mobile commerce platform symbolized as AAAAAA in to the transaction code symbolized as XXXXXXXXXX in as a prefix. For example in one embodiment a six digit IIN is added as a prefix to a ten digit transaction code one time use perishable transaction code used in approving transactions as discussed above to produce a 16 digit combined number as illustrated in .

Referring next to in other embodiments different length IINs and transaction codes can be used and combined number can include additional components. For example in the illustrative embodiment shown in a transaction code of from 9 to 12 digits inclusive is employed and the last rightmost digit of combined number is a check digit symbolized as Y in .

Referring again to mobile commerce platform upon receiving a transaction routed to it via processors and payment networks by virtue of the added IIN in combined number communicates with payment systems to execute the transaction. The step by step process of carrying out a sales transaction is discussed in greater detail below in connection with .

Referring next to it is a functional block diagram of a computer server server that hosts a mobile commerce application suite in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the invention. In this embodiment server is part of mobile commerce platform see . In processor communicates over data bus with input devices display communication interfaces COMM. INTERFACES in storage devices e.g. hard disk drives or flash memory and memory . Though shows only a single processor multiple processors or a multi core processor may be present in some embodiments.

Input devices include for example a keyboard a mouse or other pointing device or other devices that are used to input data or commands to server to control its operation. Communication interfaces may include for example various serial or parallel interfaces for communicating with network see or one or more peripherals.

Memory may include without limitation random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory magnetic storage e.g. a hard disk drive optical storage or a combination of these depending on the particular embodiment. In memory includes mobile commerce applications which control and manage various aspects of the operation of mobile commerce platform . Equipped with mobile commerce applications server implements a server side digital wallet to support mobile payments by users equipped with appropriately configured mobile devices . Each such user has a secure account on server .

Mobile commerce applications may be divided into various functional modules depending on the particular embodiment. depicts merely one example of how such functional modules can be identified. In other embodiments there may be more or fewer functional modules and they may be subdivided or combined differently or named differently in those other embodiments.

In accounts management module manages user accounts including the storage of user profile information and preferences and the management of the various forms of tenders available to a given user. Transaction code generation module generates transaction codes . IIN module adds the IIN corresponding to mobile commerce platform to a transaction code . Communication module handles communications over network between server and other systems such as a user s mobile device processors and payment networks and payment systems .

In one illustrative embodiment mobile commerce applications are implemented as software that is executed by processor . Such software may be stored prior to its being loaded into RAM for execution by processor on any suitable computer readable storage medium such as a hard disk drive an optical disk or a flash memory. In general the functionality of server may be implemented using a combination of hardware and software and or firmware.

In some embodiments server is implemented using a single machine. In other embodiments multiple machines are networked together to provide the needed functionality and performance.

Referring next to it is a flowchart of a method for routing transactions to a mobile commerce platform in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the invention. Throughout the discussion of that follows frequent reference will also be made to .

Method begins with a mobile device user contacting mobile commerce platform via network using a mobile device . At mobile commerce platform receives the user s request to make a purchase from a merchant . At mobile commerce platform authenticates the user using for example an optional PIN and in some embodiments other factors such as the mobile communication device identifier of mobile device . Mobile commerce platform at generates a transaction code as explained above. At mobile commerce platform adds IIN to transaction code as a prefix to form combined number see . At mobile commerce platform returns the combined number to mobile device . As explained above the IIN forms the leadings digits of the combined number so it can serve as a mechanism for identifying mobile commerce platform and routing transactions to mobile commerce platform via processors and payment networks .

Next the user provides the combined number IIN and transaction code to merchant POS system by any of a variety of methods including without limitation radio frequency identification RFID WI FI BLUETOOTH WIMAX one or two dimensional bar code scanned from the display of mobile device and voice i.e. the user speaks combined number to the merchant who enters it into merchant POS system using a keypad or other user interface .

Combined number is transmitted from merchant POS system to processors and payment networks . Based on the business relationships discussed above between the owners of mobile commerce platform and various processors and payment networks processors and payment networks route the transaction to mobile commerce platform . At mobile commerce platform receives the transaction details amount merchant etc. and transaction code from processors and payment networks . Note that in any given transaction combined number will typically pass through one processor and one payment network or through only one payment network where the merchant POS system is directly connected with the VISA MASTERCARD or DISCOVER AMEX payment network. At method terminates.

Referring next to it is a flowchart of a method for routing transactions to a mobile commerce platform in accordance with another illustrative embodiment of the invention. The embodiment shown in coincides with that shown in through Block . Thus the blocks preceding Block in have not been repeated in .

At mobile commerce platform bases approval of the received transaction on the merchant identifier the transaction amount and recognition of the transaction code . If the transaction is approved mobile commerce platform communicates at with payment systems to execute the transaction in accordance with me particular tender selected by the mobile device user. If an authorization code e.g. 00 comes back from the applicable payment system among payment systems indicating that all is well with the transaction mobile commerce platform at transmits an authorization code to the applicable payment network see processors and payment networks in which forwards the authorization code to merchant POS system completing the transaction. At method terminates.

Referring next to it is a flowchart of a method for routing transactions to a mobile commerce platform in accordance with yet another illustrative embodiment of the invention. depicts the routing of a transaction to mobile commerce platform from the point of view of a mobile device user making a purchase from a merchant .

At the mobile device user contacts mobile commerce platform via network using a mobile device as explained above. At the mobile device user receives the combined number made up of IIN and transaction code see at his or her mobile device . At the mobile device user provides the combined number to the merchant s POS system like a typical credit or debit card number as explained above.

As explained above the IIN in combined number enables the transaction to be routed to mobile commerce platform via existing processors and payment networks thereby overcoming the lack of a direct connection between merchant POS system and mobile commerce platform . At method terminates.

In conclusion the present invention provides among other things a method and system for routing transactions to a mobile commerce platform. Those skilled in the art can readily recognize that numerous variations and substitutions may be made in the invention its use and its configuration to achieve substantially the same results as achieved by the embodiments described herein. Accordingly there is no intention to limit the invention to the disclosed exemplary forms. Many variations modifications and alternative constructions fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed invention.

