---

title: Updating point of interest data based on an image
abstract: Various aspects of the subject technology relate to systems, methods, and machine-readable media for updating a point of interest (POI) data repository. A system may be configured to receive a communication comprising an image associated with a point of interest, extract textual data from the image, identify a portion of the textual data that corresponds to a point of interest (POI) field in a point of interest listing, and update the point of interest (POI) data repository based on the portion of the textual data that corresponds to the POI field.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09165206&OS=09165206&RS=09165206
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09165206
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121211
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 569 717 filed on Dec. 12 2011 and entitled UPDATING A POINT OF INTEREST DATABASE BASED ON AN IMAGE the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure generally relates to information processing and in particular updating a point of interest data repository.

In some instances a point of interest data repository is a memory store for information about all points of interest known to one or more systems. The point of interest POI data repository may contain a listing e.g. a record for each point of interest e.g. a business a landmark a geographic area or other location . The point of interest listing may contain information about a point of interest such as a POI name an address location coordinates a phone number a website business hours e.g. opening hours one or more terms associated with the POI etc.

The point of interest data repository may be used by one or more systems for a variety of applications. For example POI listings stored in a POI data repository may be used to locate places of interest on a map or identify places of interest in local searches. POI listings may also be used to find directions from one location to another. Accordingly having a robust and accurate point of interest POI data repository may improve the performance functionality and usability of the various applications that use a point of interest data repository. However populating a POI data repository presents a number of difficulties especially in certain regions around the world e.g. emerging markets .

According to another aspect of the subject technology a system for updating a point of interest POI data repository is provided. The system may include one or more processors and a machine readable medium comprising instructions stored therein which when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations. The operations may include receiving a communication comprising an image associated with a point of interest extracting textual data from the image using optical character recognition identifying a portion of the textual data that corresponds to a point of interest POI field and updating the point of interest POI data repository based on the portion of the textual data that corresponds to the POI field.

According to one aspect of the subject technology a method for updating a point of interest POI data repository is provided. The method may include receiving a communication comprising an image associated with a point of interest extracting textual data from the image identifying a portion of the textual data that corresponds to a point of interest POI field for a point of interest listing and updating the point of interest POI data repository based on the portion of the textual data that corresponds to the POI field for the point of interest listing.

According to yet another aspect of the subject technology a machine readable medium including instructions stored therein which when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform operations for updating a point of interest POI data repository is provided. The operations may include receiving a communication comprising an image associated with a point of interest extracting textual data from the image identifying a portion of the textual data that corresponds to a point of interest POI field and generating a new point of interest POI listing based on the portion of the textual data that corresponds to the POI field.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description wherein various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology may be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the subject technology. However it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the subject technology may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the subject technology.

In accordance with various aspects of the subject technology systems and methods for updating a point of interest POI information stored in a data repository based on an image are disclosed. For example a system may be configured enable users e.g. a business owner or other user to capture images e.g. photos associated with a point of interest and transmit the images to the system. The images may include for example an image of a store front of a business a business card the interior of a point of interest e.g. a business or any other image associated with the POI.

The system may receive the user submitted images extract POI information from the images and update a POI data repository such as a database using the POI information extracted from the images. For example the system may generate a new POI listing based on the POI information extracted from one or more of the user submitted images and store the new POI listing in the POI data repository. According to another aspect the system may locate an existing POI listing in the POI data repository and update the POI listing based on the information extracted from one or more of the images.

By updating a point of interest data repository using images received from one or more users the system may provide another means for adding point of interest listings to a POI data repository and maintaining an up to date POI data repository. Furthermore the POI data repository may be updated without any new equipment and allows users e.g. business owners to participate in updating the POI data repository in quick and easy way.

The network can include for example any one or more of a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a campus area network CAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN a broadband network BBN the Internet and the like. Further the network can include but is not limited to any one or more of the following network topologies including a bus network a star network a ring network a mesh network a star bus network tree or hierarchical network and the like.

The server may be implemented on any device machine or group of machines having a processor a memory and communications capability for providing one or more services with access to the POI data repository. For example the server may be configured to provide point of interest information to local search services routing services or mapping services. The server may also include components that may be configured to store point of interest POI listings and update POI listings in POI data repository. In one aspect of the subject technology the server may be a single computing machine. However in other aspects the server may be a virtual entity that might refer to a cluster or even multiple clusters of servers.

Referring back to the client devices may include for example desktop computers laptop computers tablet computers mobile devices e.g. a smart phone or camera thin clients or any other devices having appropriate processor memory and communications capabilities. Each of the client devices may be configured to transmit one or more images to the server . In some cases a client device may also be capable of capturing the image e.g. a camera or a smart phone . In other cases however the image may be uploaded to the client device e.g. a desktop computer or other server before the client device transmits the image to the server .

Although shows an image of a storefront other images used to update a POI data repository may include images of a business card images of an advertisement images of the interior of a point of interest e.g. the interior of a business or any other image associated with a point of interest. Additionally in some aspects more than one image associated with the point of interest may be captured and used to update a POI listing in the POI data repository. For example the images may include one or more images of a storefront one or more images of the interior of the point of interest one or more images of a business card or a combination of these images. Once the user captures the one or more images the one or more images may be transmitted to a system where it may be analyzed and used to update a point of interest POI data repository. One example system is discussed with respect to .

The system of may include an interface module an data extraction module a point of interest POI module and a data repository module . The interface module may be configured to receive through one or more methods a communication from a client device that includes one or more images. For example the interface module may receive user submitted images through an website upload as an email attachment or link as a multimedia messaging service MMS message or as another communication from an application on the client device.

The communication received by the interface module may in some cases include other information associated with the point of interest. For example an email or MMS message including an image may also include text from a user of the user s client device that describes one or more characteristics of the point of interest e.g. a POI type an address location coordinates etc. . A website that allows a user to upload an image may also provide additional information fields that allow a user to include textual descriptions or specify one or more characteristics e.g. from a dropdown menu of options of the point of interest.

The data extraction module may be configured to extract data from each image received by the interface module . In one aspect the data extraction module may include a optical character recognition OCR component that may extract textual data from the image. In another aspect the data extraction module may also be able to extract other information associated with the image e.g. textual descriptions or location coordinates in the communication received from the client device .

The POI module may configured to determine that one or more portions of the extracted data corresponds with one or more point of interest fields e.g. the name of a point of interest the address of a point of interest a telephone number for the point of interest etc. . The data repository module may be configured to update a point of interest POI data repository based on the portions of the extracted data that correspond to the POI fields.

For example according to one aspect of the subject technology the data repository module may determine whether the portions of the textual data that correspond to POI fields match POI fields for POI listings in the POI data repository. For example an image may contain textual data that the POI module determines corresponds with a POI field e.g. a POI name or phone number . The data repository module may search the POI data repository for POI listings that corresponds with the textual data e.g. the POI listing has a name or phone number that matches or closely matches the textual data in the image .

If no corresponding POI listing is found in the POI data repository the data repository module may generate a new POI listing using the textual data from the image e.g. the POI name or phone number and store the new POI listing in the POI data repository. According to one aspect the data repository module may also store the one or more images received by the interface module in the new POI listing.

In some cases before the new POI listing is stored in the POI data repository additional listing verification procedures may be taken. In one aspect the new POI listings may be placed in a queue for review by a system administrator e.g. a human operator or another module . The system administrator may review the new POI listing for accuracy quality or correct formatting and if the POI listing meets one or more standards the system administrator may approve the addition of the new POI listing into the POI data repository.

If on the other hand a corresponding POI listing is found in the POI data repository the data repository module may compare the information in the POI listing with the textual data from the image and update the POI listing if needed. For example if the textual data from the image includes a POI name and a POI phone number and a corresponding POI listing is found with the same name but different phone number the data repository module may update the phone number in the POI listing using the phone number in the textual data from the image or add the phone number from the image to the POI listing.

According to some aspects the data repository module may also update the corresponding POI listing by storing the one or more images received by the interface module in the corresponding POI listing. Furthermore any updates to POI listings in the POI data repository may also be placed in a queue for review and approval by a system administrator.

Although the example described above deals primarily with textual data extracted from an image according to other aspects of the subject technology the data repository module may also search for POI listings in the POI data repository using any other data e.g. textual descriptions about the POI location coordinates for the POI etc. or combination of data extracted from the communication. For example if the communication includes location coordinates associated with a business and an image of the business s storefront containing the business name and a telephone number for the business the data repository module may use all three pieces of information to search for a corresponding POI listing in the POI data repository.

If a POI listing is found with location coordinates within a threshold distance of the location coordinates from the client device but the name or the phone number for the listing does not match the name and phone number extracted from the image the data repository module may update the name and phone number in the listing with the name and phone number extracted from the image. If no POI listing is found the data repository module may create a new POI listing to be stored in the POI listing using the location coordinates name and telephone number extracted from the communication from the client.

The process begins at operation where a user on a client device e.g. a camera or a smart phone captures an image associated with a point of interest POI . The point of interest may be a business e.g. a retail store a restaurant a doctor s office a landmark e.g. a museum a neighborhood etc. or any other location that may be of interest to the user other users or the system. The image may be of the outside of the point of interest e.g. a storefront or plaque in front of a landmark a business card the interior of a point of interest or any other image associated with the point of interest.

At operation the client device may generate a communication e.g. an email an MMS message or a message in another format that includes the image and transmit the communication to the server. In some aspects the communication may include other information as well. For example a camera or a smart phone may have location determination capabilities such as a global positioning system that may be able to identify location coordinates associated with the image. The client device may also enable a user to input information to include in the communication. The client device may include the location coordinates and or the user inputted information in the communication transmitted to the server.

In another aspect the client device may provide a user interface that enables a user to input additional information that may be included in the communication. For example if the phone number business hours e.g. opening hours website or address is not in an image of a business storefront the user may input the missing information. This information may also be sent to the server in the communication to help the server update the POI data repository.

At operation the communication from the client device may be received at the server. The server may perform one or more optical character recognition OCR techniques on the image in order to extract textual data from the image at operation . The textual data in the image may include information that may be used to identify a POI listing in the POI data repository or update a POI listing in the POI data repository as well as information that may not be helpful.

To determine which information may be used the server may parse the textual data extracted from the image and identify one or more portions of the textual data that correspond to POI fields e.g. a POI name a POI address etc. at operation . At operation the one or more portions of textual data that correspond to the POI fields may be used to update the POI data repository. According to another aspect of the subject technology the other information included in the communication received from the client device may also be used to update the POI data repository.

For example the server may search for a POI listing in the POI data repository that corresponds to the information extracted or received in the communication from the client device. If a POI listing is found the server may verify the information contained in the POI listing by comparing it to the information from the communication. If the information in the POI listing matches the POI listing is verified. If there are differences between the information in the POI listing and the information from the communication the POI listing may be updated with the information from the communication or flagged for further review by for example a system administrator.

If no POI listing is found the server may generate a new POI listing using the information received in the communication from the client device and store the new POI listing in the POI data repository. According to some aspects before storing the new POI listing in the POI data repository the server may put the new POI listing in a queue for review by a system administrator e.g. a review module or a human operator .

The system administrator may review the new POI listing make changes to the new POI listing if deemed necessary by the system administrator and approve or reject the new POI listing. If the new POI listing is rejected it will not be stored in the POI data repository. If on the other hand the new POI listing is approved the server may store the new POI listing in the POI data repository.

According to another aspect when reviewing a new POI listing or an update to an existing POI listing the system administrator may also be provided with components from the communication received from the client device. For example where the system administrator is a human operator the system may provide the human operator with the new or updated POI listing the one or more images that were included in the communication and any additional information e.g. textual descriptions that were included in the communication. Using the information provided by the server the human operator may confirm that the new or updated POI listing is correct or make corrections as needed.

According to one aspect the human operator may also add additional information to the new or updated POI listing based on the one or more images included in the communication. For example the human operator may view an image associated with a point of interest e.g. an image of a storefront or the interior of a POI and observe visual indicators that may be used to fill out one or more fields of the POI listing.

In one scenario the human operator may observe an image of a storefront with a multitude of shoes for sale on display. Using these visual indicators the human operator may determine that the point of interest is a retail store and add retail store to the POI Type field of the POI listing. Additionally the human operator may add the term shoes a brand name or other keywords to the Related Terms field of the POI listing.

In a different scenario the human operator may observe an image of the interior of a restaurant with dining tables waiters and patrons eating. Using these visual indicators the human operator may determine that the point of interest is a restaurant and add restaurant to the POI Type field of the POI listing. Additionally the human operator may add the terms associated with the visual indicators such as terms for the type of restaurant e.g. Italian fine dining etc. or other keywords to the Related Terms field of the POI listing.

According to one aspect of the subject technology once the new POI listing is stored on the POI listing the server may send a message to the user of the client device informing the user that the POI listing has been added to the POI data repository.

According to another aspect of the subject technology the server may provide incentives for users to submit to the server communications that may be used to update the POI data repository. For example the server may give a gift or a certain number of points redeemable for items to users who submit the communications.

According to another aspect if the system administrator is a human operator the server may also provide incentives for the human operators to review new POI listings or to review updates to existing POI listings.

According to one aspect of the subject technology the images received by the interface module may be used to search for POI listings in the POI data repository with the same or similar images. If one or more POI listings contains a similar or identical image the information contained in the POI listings may be used to generate a new POI listing or update an existing POI listing. For example the interface module receives an image of a phone booth at one location and the system may use the image of the phone booth to search for other POI listings with the same or similar image e.g. of a phone booth . If one or more POI listings are found the system may use the information in those POI listings to generate a new POI listing for the image received by the interface module .

The example computer system includes a processor a main memory a static memory a disk drive unit and a network interface device which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include an input output interface that may be configured to communicate with various input output devices such as video display units e.g. liquid crystal LCD displays cathode ray tubes CRTs or touch screens an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse or a signal generation device e.g. a speaker .

Processor may be a general purpose microprocessor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a microcontroller a Digital Signal Processor DSP an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA a Programmable Logic Device PLD a controller a state machine gated logic discrete hardware components or any other suitable entity that can perform calculations or other manipulations of information.

A machine readable medium also referred to as a computer readable medium may store one or more sets of instructions embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system with the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media. The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

The machine readable medium may be a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed data repository and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The machine readable medium may include the drive unit the static memory the main memory the processor an external memory connected to the input output interface or some other memory. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any non transitory medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the embodiments discussed herein. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to storage mediums such as solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

Systems methods and machine readable media for updating a point of interest POI data repository are thus provided herein. The system may include an interface module a data extraction module and a data repository module. The interface module may be configured to receive a communication comprising an image associated with a point of interest. The data extraction module may be configured to extract data from the image and the data repository module may be configured to update the POI data repository based on the extracted data.

Those of skill in the art would appreciate that the various illustrative blocks modules elements components methods and algorithms described herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative blocks modules elements components methods and algorithms have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application. Various components and blocks may be arranged differently e.g. arranged in a different order or partitioned in a different way all without departing from the scope of the subject technology.

It is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of exemplary approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged. Some of the steps may be performed simultaneously.

The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. The previous description provides various examples of the subject technology and the subject technology is not limited to these examples. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects.

A phrase such as an aspect does not imply that such aspect is essential to the subject technology or that such aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an aspect may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. An aspect may provide one or more examples. A phrase such as an aspect may refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase such as an embodiment does not imply that such embodiment is essential to the subject technology or that such embodiment applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an embodiment may apply to all embodiments or one or more embodiments. An embodiment may provide one or more examples. A phrase such an embodiment may refer to one or more embodiments and vice versa. A phrase such as a configuration does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to a configuration may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A configuration may provide one or more examples. A phrase such a configuration may refer to one or more configurations and vice versa.

The word exemplary may be used herein to mean serving as an example or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims. Moreover nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term include have or the like is used in the description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprise as comprise is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

