---

title: Methods and devices for detecting a hand
abstract: Methods and devices for detecting a hand in proximity to an electronic device are described. The electronic device includes a near field communications (NFC) antenna. In one aspect, the method includes: monitoring an induced voltage at the NFC antenna; and determining whether a hand is in proximity to the electronic device based on the induced voltage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09363350&OS=09363350&RS=09363350
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09363350
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120705
---
The present disclosure relates to electronic device management and more particularly to methods and electronic devices for detecting a hand in proximity to the electronic devices.

Electronic devices such as a smartphones are often equipped for voice and data communications over wireless networks such as cellular networks. These communications may be transmitted and received in the form of Radio Frequency RF signals from one or more antennas associated with the electronic devices. In order to ensure connectivity for communications the RF signals need to be transmitted and received at appropriate power output levels. Otherwise the electronic devices may suffer from dropped calls reduced data throughput and loss in data connection.

Wireless network carriers operating cellular networks sometimes provide specifications for the power output of RF signals and minimum receive sensitivity to these RF signals by the electronic devices. More particularly wireless network carriers sometimes provide specifications for the requisite power output and minimum sensitivity to the RF signals by the electronic devices at various operating states of the electronic devices for example free space operation head operation and head and hand operation . Original equipment manufacturers OEMs are required to design electronic devices to meet the requisite specifications for power output of the associated RF signals and minimum receive sensitivity to these RF signals in these various operating states.

In one aspect the present application describes a method for detecting a hand in proximity to an electronic device. The electronic device includes a near field communications NFC antenna. The method includes monitoring an induced voltage at the NFC antenna and determining whether a hand is in proximity to the electronic device based on the induced voltage.

In another aspect the present application describes an electronic device for detecting a hand in proximity to the electronic device. The electronic device includes a memory and a near field communications NFC antenna. The electronic device also includes a processor coupled with the memory and the NFC antenna. The processor is configured to monitor an induced voltage at an NFC antenna and determine that a hand is in proximity to the electronic device based on the induced voltage.

In yet another aspect the present application describes a computer readable storage medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions for detecting a hand in proximity to an electronic device. The computer executable instructions include instructions for monitoring an induced voltage at a near field communications NFC antenna and determining that a hand is in proximity to the electronic device based on the induced voltage.

Other example embodiments of the present disclosure will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings.

Example embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to any particular operating system electronic device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

Reference is first made to which illustrates an example electronic device in which example embodiments described in the present disclosure can be applied. In the example embodiment illustrated the electronic device is a mobile communication device. That is the electronic device is configured to communicate with other electronic devices servers and or systems i.e. it is a communication device and the electronic device is portable and may be easily moved between different physical locations i.e. it is a mobile device . However in other example embodiments the electronic device may not be portable i.e. may not be a mobile device and or may not be configured to communicate with other systems i.e. may not be a communication device .

Depending on the functionality provided by the electronic device in various example embodiments the electronic device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a wearable computer such as a watch a tablet computer such as a slate computer a personal digital assistant PDA or a computer system. The electronic device may take other forms apart from those specifically listed above. The electronic device may also in various example embodiments be referred to as a mobile communications device a communication device a mobile device an electronic device and in some cases as a device.

The electronic device includes a controller including at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the electronic device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor may be communicably coupled with additional device subsystems including one or more output interfaces such as a display and or a speaker one or more input interfaces such as a microphone a keyboard not shown control buttons not shown a touch sensitive overlay not shown associated with a touchscreen display a camera not shown and or other input interfaces memory such as flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM etc. auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port a short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may include a touchscreen display which acts as both an input interface i.e. touch sensitive overlay and an output interface i.e. display . The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface which is connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller.

The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which the electronic device is intended to operate. The wireless network may include one or more of a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN and or a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN and or other suitable network arrangements. In some example embodiments the electronic device is configured to communicate over both the WWAN and WLAN and to roam between these networks. The electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network via the wireless communication subsystem after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Greater details of an example wireless communication subsystem of the electronic device are provided below with reference to .

In at least some example embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The electronic device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the electronic device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback i.e. touch feedback .

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may provide for communications between the electronic device and other devices tags or systems over the Near Field Communications NFC protocol. The NFC protocol is a set of standards that allow electronic devices to wirelessly communicate with other devices and tags when they are in close proximity. The NFC protocol typically operates within the frequency band of 13.56 MHz and has a working distance of 4 cm or less. There are three data rates of transfer within the NFC protocol 106 kilobits per second kbit s 212 kbit s and 424 kbit s. There are two modes of communications supported by the NFC protocol passive communication mode and active communication mode. In the passive communication mode for example one electronic device provides an electro magnetic carrier field and the other electronic device answers by modulating the electro magnetic carrier field. In the active communication mode for example both electronic devices communicate with each other by alternatively generating their own electro magnetic carrier fields.

The electronic device includes an NFC subsystem configured to communicate using the NFC protocol. The NFC subsystem includes an NFC antenna coupled to an NFC integrated circuit IC . The NFC IC is a dedicated controller which controls the operation of the NFC antenna and is communicably coupled to the processor . In one example the NFC antenna may be an inductor i.e. a wired coil that provides an electro magnetic carrier field for communications over the NFC protocol. The NFC IC may generate an alternating current at 13.56 MHZ through the NFC antenna which induces the electro magnetic carrier field for communications within other electronic devices equipped with NFC interfaces.

As the NFC antenna has a specific load voltage is also induced within the NFC antenna when an electro magnetic carrier field is generated. Accordingly the NFC antenna produces a particular induced voltage due to the load of the NFC antenna . A load condition within the electro magnetic field may vary if there is the presence of an additional load. For example during the NFC protocol communication process the presence of another electronic device within the vicinity of the electro magnetic carrier field may increase the load condition and in turn the induced voltage within the NFC antenna . Additionally the presence of a hand such as a user holding the electronic device or a flat surface on which the electronic device may rest that is within the vicinity of the electro magnetic carrier field may also increase the load condition and in turn the induced voltage within the NFC antenna .

The functions and features of the NFC subsystem may be used for other purposes beyond wireless communications such as for detection and power adjusting purposes. For example in at least some example embodiments the electronic device or more particularly one or more modules or software applications within the electronic device may monitor the induced voltage within the NFC antenna and determine that a hand is in proximity to the electronic device based on a change in the induced voltage that is caused by a change in the load condition within the electro magnetic carrier field generated by the NFC antenna due to the presence of the hand. Based on the detection of the hand the electronic device may in turn adjust the power output of a mobile antenna which may be referred to as the total radiated power TRP associated with the electronic device for example in the wireless communication subsystem and or may adjust the total isotropic sensitivity TIS associated with the mobile antenna.

In one example the NFC antenna may be located near a rear side of the electronic device . For example the NFC antenna may be located underneath the housing on a rear side of the electronic device . That is the NFC antenna may be situated between the rear side housing cover and most of the device components of the electronic device . Accordingly changes in load conditions within the NFC antenna may occur when a load such as a hand of a user is placed at or near the rear side of the electronic device .

The front side of the electronic device is typically the side on which the display is mounted. In contrast the rear side is typically a side which does not include the main display of the electronic device . The rear side in at least some embodiments is the side of the electronic device which is opposite the side which includes the display .

The short range communication subsystem is an additional optional component which provides for communication between the electronic device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communication subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device also includes a removable memory module which may be flash memory such as a removable memory card and a memory interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the electronic device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory module is inserted in or connected to the memory interface of the electronic device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the electronic device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to a host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable or Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may include one or more sensors. For example the electronic device may include an orientation sensor that detects the orientation of the electronic device or that generates information from which the orientation of the electronic device can be determined such as acceleration information. In some example embodiments the orientation sensor is an accelerometer such as a three axis accelerometer. An accelerometer is a sensor which converts acceleration from motion e.g. movement of the electronic device or a portion thereof due to the strike force and gravity which are detected by a sensing element into an electrical signal producing a corresponding change in output . Accelerometers may be available in one two or three axis configurations. Higher order axis configurations are also possible. Accelerometers may produce digital or analog output signals depending on the type of accelerometer. In other example embodiments the orientation sensor may be of other forms instead of or in addition to an accelerometer. For example the orientation sensor may be a gravity sensor a gyroscope a tilt sensor an electronic compass or other suitable sensors or combinations thereof.

The orientation sensor may generate orientation data which specifies the orientation of the electronic device . The orientation data in at least some example embodiments specifies the orientation of the electronic device relative to the gravitational field of the earth. Accordingly in at least some example embodiments the orientation data may be used when determining whether a hand of a user is in proximity to the electronic device in addition to a change in the induced voltage within the NFC antenna . For example in at least some example embodiments orientation data that indicates that the electronic device is in a table top orientation that is the electronic device is lying flat on its rear side on a surface such as a floor ground table etc. may be used to determine that a hand is not in proximity to the electronic device as a change in load condition within the NFC antenna may be caused by the surface and not the hand.

The electronic device may also include an infrared IR sensor . The infrared sensor may sense objects within the proximity of the electronic device by measuring infrared light i.e. light outside the visible spectrum reflecting from objects within a field of view. More particularly the infrared sensor emits infrared light and detects reflected infrared light. For example the infrared sensor may include one or more infrared emitting devices such as a diode. The diodes are configured to emit infrared light from a side of the electronic device such as at or near a front side of the electronic device . When light is emitted by the diodes the light may be reflected by an object such as a head of a user which is located within the sensing area i.e. the side of the electronic device from which the infrared light is emitted . The reflected infrared light is then received by the infrared sensor . For example the infrared sensor may include one or more infrared receiving devices such as a photodiodes. The photodiodes produce electrical signals which depend on the amount of light which was output from the diodes and which was reflected by an object and received at the photodiodes. Accordingly different objects may be sensed and classified by the infrared sensor .

In at least some example embodiments the infrared sensor may be used to detect a head of a user of the electronic device . For example a head of a user which is within the sensing area of the infrared sensor may reflect infrared light that is emitted from the infrared sensor . The reflected infrared light may then be received by the infrared sensor . The infrared sensor may then determine the object to be the head of a user based on the level of infrared light emitted and received. For example if the amount of infrared light received exceeds a threshold then the electronic device may determine that a head may be present. That is the electronic device may then determine that a head of a user is in proximity to the electronic device .

It will be appreciated that the electronic device may include other sensors not specifically described herein.

The electronic device also includes or is connectable to a power source such as a battery . The battery may be one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the electronic device .

The electronic device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data includes service data including information used by the electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information image data calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the electronic device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the electronic device may be organized at least partially into one or more databases or data stores. The databases or data stores may contain data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the memory. The data may further include NFC related data and sensor related data. For example the NFC related data may include a list of pre determined levels for voltage fluctuations that may indicate that a particular type of load such as a hand is present near the electronic device.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications may be installed on the electronic device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the electronic device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable device subsystem . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

The electronic device may in at least some example embodiments be a mobile communication device which may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or a web page download will be processed by the wireless communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email messaging application and output to the display . A user of the electronic device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the wireless communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the electronic device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar to the data communication mode except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware e.g. a voice communication module and hardware e.g. the microphone the speaker and input interfaces . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and other software applications including a detection module and a power adjuster module .

The software applications on the electronic device may also include a range of additional applications including for example a notepad application Internet browser application voice communication e.g. telephony application mapping application or a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface e.g. the display according to the application.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and it will be appreciated that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

As noted above the electronic device includes various detection capabilities of objects within its surroundings. In one such example the detection module may be configured to perform some of these detection features and functionalities by interfacing with various components such as the NFC subsystem and or the sensors such as the infrared sensor and or the orientation sensor . For example in at least some example embodiments the detection module may monitor an induced voltage at the NFC antenna and determine whether a hand is in proximity to the electronic device based on the induced voltage. For example the detection module may interface with the NFC IC to examine induced voltage fluctuations within the NFC antenna due to load condition changes. If the induced voltage fluctuation is above a pre determined threshold that may correlate to the load of a hand the detection module may determine that a hand is in proximity of the electronic device . For example as the NFC antenna is located near a rear side of the electronic device the detection module may determine the presence of a hand when a user conventionally holds the electronic device for operation i.e. holding the electronic device from a rear side .

In at least some example embodiments the detection module may also interface with the infrared sensor and or the orientation sensor for detection purposes. For example in at least some example embodiments the detection module in addition to determining the presence of a hand utilizing the NFC subsystem may determine the presence of a head utilizing the infrared sensor . The detection module may be configured to interface with the infrared sensor to receive a reflection of infrared light emitted by the infrared sensor and determine whether a head is in proximity to the electronic device based on the reflection. That is the detection module determines whether a head of a user is in the vicinity of the electronic device by analyzing the reflected light received by the infrared sensor . For example as the infrared sensor may be located on a front side of the electronic device and accordingly emits infrared light from a front side the detection module may determine the presence of a head when a user is conventionally operating the electronic device for voice communication i.e. holding the electronic device close to an ear . Accordingly the detection module may concurrently detect the presence of a hand and a head of a user near the electronic device .

In at least some example embodiments the detection module may also utilize the orientation sensor when detecting the presence of a hand and or head. For example in at least some example embodiments the detection module prior to determining the presence of a hand utilizing the NFC subsystem and or determining the presence of a head utilizing the infrared sensor may obtain orientation data gathered by the orientation sensor and then determine whether a hand and or head is in proximity to the electronic device based on the induced voltage and the orientation data. Accordingly the orientation of the electronic device may be a factor in determining whether a hand of a user is near the electronic device and or when determining whether a head is near the electronic device . For example if the orientation of the electronic device is a table top orientation the electronic device may conclude that the presence of a load condition detected by a change in voltage at an NFC subsystem is caused by the presence of an object that is not a hand for example it is caused by a table. In at least some embodiments the electronic device may determine if the electronic device is in a top up tabletop orientation in which the rear side of the electronic device is resting on a table and if so may determine that any change in voltage at the NFC subsystem is caused by the table and not a hand i.e. the electronic device may determine that a hand is not present .

After the detection module performs the detection operations the power adjuster module may be configured to adjust the power output of the mobile antenna associated with electronic device and or to adjust the total isotropic sensitivity TIS associated with the mobile antenna. That is the power adjuster module may change the power of the RF signals transmitted by the electronic device for communications to the wireless network . The adjustment of the power output and or the total isotropic sensitivity may be based on the detection results of the detection module . For example in at least some example embodiments the power adjuster module may adjust the power output and or the total isotropic sensitivity of the mobile antenna to a first power output state if both a hand and head are detected to a second power output state if only a head is detected to a third power output state if neither a hand or a head is detected and to a fourth power output state if only a hand is detected. In at least some example embodiments the power adjuster module may adjust the power output of the mobile antenna by controlling one or more tunable capacitors. For example when both a hand and a head are detected the one or more capacitors may be tuned to impedance match the mobile antenna to maximize the power output.

Specific functions and features of the detection module and the power adjuster module will be discussed in greater detail below with reference to .

In at least some example embodiments the operating system may perform some or all of the functions of the detection module and or the power adjuster module . In other example embodiments the functions or a portion of the functions of the detection module and or the power adjuster module may be performed by one or more other applications. For example in at least some example embodiments the detection and or the power adjusting functions may be performed by other applications.

Further while the detection module and the power adjuster module have been illustrated as a stand alone application in other example embodiments the detection module and or the power adjuster module may be implemented as part of the operating system or another application . Furthermore in at least some example embodiments the functions of the detection module and or the power adjuster module may be provided by a plurality of software modules. In at least some example embodiments these software modules may be divided among multiple applications.

As discussed above the electronic device includes a wireless communication subsystem to allow the electronic device to communicate over a wireless network . An example wireless communication subsystem design is now illustrated with reference to .

The example wireless communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements referred to as a mobile antenna a power amplifier local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The mobile antenna may be embedded or internal to the electronic device and the mobile antenna may be shared by both the receiver and the transmitter . The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which the electronic device is intended to operate.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The electronic device may send and receive RF signals for communications over the wireless network via the mobile antenna after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed.

RF signals received at the mobile antenna from the wireless network may pass through a power amplifier which may amplify the power of the received signal. Accordingly the electronic device may have improved coverage as weaker received signals may be captured and amplified. Similarly RF signals transmitted by the mobile antenna to the wireless network may also pass through the power amplifier which may amplify the power of the transmitted signals. Accordingly the electronic device may consume less power as low power signals may be generated for transmission which may only need to be amplified prior to transmission.

It will be appreciated that in at least some example embodiments the power amplifier may be embedded within each of the receiver and the transmitter .

Received signals passing through the power amplifier are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering etc. and pass through the power amplifier for transmission to the wireless network via the mobile antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In at least some example embodiments the wireless communication subsystem may additionally include a tunable antenna match . The tunable antenna match includes one or more tunable capacitors which may be in parallel to one another . The one or more tunable capacitors may be controlled for example by the processor to vary the capacitance supplied by them. Accordingly the one or more tunable capacitors may adjust the power output of the mobile antenna . For example the power of signals for transmission may be varied. For example in at least some example embodiments the one or more tunable capacitors may perform impedance matching to maximize the power output of the mobile antenna . That is the one or more tunable capacitors may be tuned to match the impedance of the power amplifier or in other example embodiments the transmitter to the complex conjugate impedance of the mobile antenna which maximizes the power transfer to the mobile antenna and therefore maximizes power output or minimizes reflections from the mobile antenna .

As mentioned above in at least some example embodiments the electronic device may adjust the power output and or the total isotropic sensitivity of the mobile antenna to one of a number of states based on the determination of a hand and or a head in proximity to the electronic device . In such example embodiments the one or more tunable capacitors may be varied for example the processor may perform the tuning of the capacitors to adjust the power output and or the total isotropic sensitivity of the mobile antenna to the desired power output state depending on the determination. In at least some example embodiments a power output state may require the power output of the mobile antenna to be maximized and accordingly the one or more tunable capacitors are tuned for impedance matching. That is the tunable capacitors are adjusted so that the impedance of the mobile antenna is matched to the impedance of the remainder of the wireless communication subsystem . More particularly the mobile antenna is impedance matched to the RF front end.

The wireless communication subsystem illustrated in is an example wireless communication subsystem. In other example embodiments the wireless communication subsystem may be of other configurations not specifically described herein.

While illustrates an embodiment in which a single mobile antenna is shared by both the receiver and the transmitter in other embodiments separate mobile antennas may be used.

As discussed above the electronic device may take a variety of forms. For example in at least some example embodiments the electronic device may be a smartphone.

Referring now to a front view of an example electronic device which is a smartphone is illustrated. The smartphone is a mobile phone which offers more advanced computing capability than a basic non smartphone cellular phone. For example the smartphone may have the ability to run third party applications which are stored on the smartphone .

The smartphone may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The smartphone includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

In the example embodiment illustrated the smartphone includes a display which may be a touchscreen display which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the smartphone so that it is viewable at a front side of the smartphone . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the smartphone. In the example embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

The example smartphone also includes other input interfaces such as one or more buttons keys or navigational input mechanisms. In the example embodiment illustrated at least some of these additional input interfaces are disposed for actuation at a front side of the smartphone .

The smartphone additionally includes an infrared sensor which may be of the type described above with reference to . The infrared sensor is located within the front side of the smartphone . Accordingly the infrared light from the infrared sensor is emitted from the front side of the smartphone . That is an object that is located in proximity to the front side of the smartphone may be within the sensing area of the infrared sensor . For example a head of a user conventionally operating the smartphone for voice communications by placing the head in proximity to the front side of the smartphone may be detected by the infrared sensor .

Referring now to a rear view of the example smartphone is illustrated. The rear side of the smartphone may serve as the portion a user may hold when operating the smartphone .

The smartphone may include a NFC subsystem which includes a NFC IC and NFC antenna . The NFC antenna may be located near the rear side of the smartphone . For example the NFC antenna may be located directly underneath the housing of the rear side of the smartphone . The NFC antenna is located to emit an electro magnetic carrier field at a rear side of the electronic device . The NFC antenna is located such that a user operating the smartphone by placing a hand at or near the rear side may change the load condition within the NFC antenna .

Reference will now be made to in which an example method of detecting a hand in proximity to an electronic device is illustrated in flowchart form. The electronic device may be configured to perform the method of . In at least some example embodiments the processor of the electronic device is configured to perform the method of . One or more applications or modules on the electronic device may contain computer readable instructions which cause the processor of the electronic device to perform the method of . In at least some example embodiments the detection module and or the power adjuster module stored in memory of the electronic device are configured to perform the method of . More particularly the detection module and or the power adjuster module may contain computer readable instructions which when executed cause the processor to perform the method of . In at least some example embodiments the detection module and or the power adjuster module may interface with other components such as the NFC subsystem and or the wireless communication subsystem to perform the method of of .

It will be appreciated that the method of may in at least some example embodiments be provided by other software applications or modules apart from those specifically discussed above. Accordingly any features which are referred to as being performed by the electronic device may be performed by any one or more of the software applications or modules referred to above or other software modules. In at least some example embodiments at least some of the method of may be performed by or may rely on other applications or modules.

At the electronic device monitors an induced voltage at the NFC antenna . More particularly the electronic device passes a current through the NFC antenna which causes the NFC antenna to emit an electro magnetic carrier field . Then the electronic device monitors an induced voltage at the NFC antenna .

As mentioned above the NFC antenna which may be an inductor produces an electro magnetic carrier field when a current passes through the NFC antenna . The current may be generated by the NFC IC or the processor of the electronic device or other components. As the NFC antenna has a particular load a voltage is induced within the NFC antenna when the NFC antenna is operating in free space i.e. when the NFC antenna is not near any external objects . The created induced voltage within the NFC antenna may be represented by the following equation which is based on the principles of Ohm s Law where I is the current supplied by for example the NFC IC Z is the impedance i.e. the complex generalization of resistance of the NFC antenna and V is the voltage induced within the NFC antenna .

The electronic device monitors the induced voltage created within the NFC antenna . In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may interface with the NFC IC to monitor the induced voltage at the NFC antenna . For example the electronic device may query the NFC IC for the induced voltage at the NFC antenna and the NFC IC may report the induced voltage. In other example embodiments the NFC IC may inform the electronic device of the induced voltage at the NFC antenna .

The electronic device then at determines whether a hand is in proximity to the electronic device based on the induced voltage. For example the electronic device may determine whether a change in the induced voltage at the NFC antenna correlates to the load of a hand.

As the NFC antenna generates an electro magnetic carrier field a change in the load condition within the electro magnetic carrier field varies the induced voltage at the NFC antenna . Based on the equation if the current I supplied by for example the NFC IC is constant and the impedance Z increases to Z due to for example an additional load the induced voltage also increases from V to V .

The presence of a load in proximity to the NFC antenna increases the induced voltage at the NFC antenna . However the induced voltage at the NFC antenna may constantly fluctuate based on objects being near the electronic device that may be located within the electro magnetic carrier field and vary the induced voltage at the NFC antenna . Accordingly the electronic device in determining whether a hand is near the electronic device may detect that a variation in the induced voltage is above a pre determined threshold that relates to the load of a typical hand. For example the difference between V and V should be above a specified voltage value in order for the electronic device to determine that a hand is in proximity to the electronic device . That is where V is the difference between the induced voltage when an additional load is present and the induced voltage when no additional load is present i.e. the load of the NFC antenna and Vth is the pre determined threshold voltage that V should be greater than in order for the electronic device to detect the presence of a hand. If the difference between V and V is below the specified voltage value the electronic device may determine that a hand is not in proximity to the electronic device .

In at least some example embodiments when performing the determination process the electronic device may retrieve the pre determined threshold value from the memory of the electronic device . The electronic device may then compare the change in the induced voltage to the pre determined threshold value in order to determine whether the change in the induced voltage is caused by the load of a hand.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may not analyze the variation in the induced voltage but rather may determine if the induced voltage at the NFC antenna is above a pre determined threshold voltage. That is the electronic device may determine the presence of a hand if the induced voltage is above a pre determined threshold voltage. More specifically where Vth is another pre determined threshold voltage that represents a voltage value that the induced voltage when an additional load is present i.e. V should be greater than in order for the electronic device to detect the present of hand. Accordingly the difference between the induced voltages at the NFC antenna prior to and after the presence of a load may not be calculated and the induced voltage at the NFC antenna after the load is present may only be considered during the determination process.

In at least some example embodiments the NFC antenna is located near a rear side of the electronic device . In such example embodiments the electro magnetic carrier field generated by the NFC antenna is propagated surrounding the rear side of the electronic device . Accordingly a load such as a hand is within the electromagnetic carrier field when placed at or near a rear side of the electronic device . For example a hand of a user holding the electronic device from the rear side may be detected.

In at least some embodiments whether a hand is detected or not at the electronic device may receive a reflection of infrared light emitted by an infrared sensor associated with the electronic device . For example an object within the path of the emitted infrared light may be reflected to a sensing area of the infrared sensor . The reflected infrared light is then received by the electronic device from the infrared sensor .

The electronic device may then at determine whether a head is in proximity to the electronic device based on the received reflection. For example the electronic device may analyze the received reflected infrared light and the emitted infrared light to determine whether the object reflecting the infrared light is a head of a user of the electronic device . For example the electronic device may analyze the level and intensity of the reflected infrared light and the emitted infrared light when performing the determination process. Based on the analysis the electronic device may determine whether the electronic device is likely in proximity to a head.

In at least some example embodiments the infrared sensor is located at or near a front side of the electronic device . Accordingly the infrared light is emitted around the front side of the electronic device and infrared light is reflected from objects within the vicinity of the front side of the electronic device . For example a head of a user operating the electronic device by placing the head near the front side of the electronic device may reflect the emitted infrared light to the electronic device via the infrared sensor .

After the determination processes of and the electronic device may adjust the power output and or the total isotropic sensitivity of the mobile antenna associated with the electronic device based on the determination results of and . More particularly the power or sensitivity may be adjusted at based on the operating environment of the electronic device . That is the power of the RF signals transmitted by the mobile antenna is accordingly adjusted.

For example in at least some example embodiments if it is determined that a hand and a head are in proximity to the electronic device the electronic device may adjust the power output of the mobile antenna to a first power output state and the sensitivity of the mobile antenna may be adjusted to a first sensitivity state . In some example embodiments if it is determined that only the head and not the hand is in proximity to the electronic device the electronic device may adjust the power output of the mobile antenna to a second power output state and the sensitivity of the mobile antenna may be adjusted to a second sensitivity state . In some example embodiments if it is determined that the head and the hand are not in proximity to the electronic device the electronic device may adjust the power output of the mobile antenna to a third power output state and the sensitivity of the mobile antenna may be adjusted to a third sensitivity state . In some example embodiments if it is determined that only the hand and not the head is in proximity to the electronic device the electronic device may adjust the power output of the mobile antenna to a fourth power output state and the sensitivity of the mobile antenna may be adjusted to a fourth sensitivity state . Accordingly in some example embodiments the power output of the mobile antenna may be adjusted to one of four power output states and the sensitivity may be adjusted to one of four sensitivity output states. In at least some example embodiments the level of power of the different output states and the sensitivity may depend upon specifications provided by one or more wireless network carriers operating the wireless network in which the RF signals are transmitted.

The electronic device may adjust the power output and or the sensitivity by tuning one or more tunable capacitors. That is the one or more tunable capacitors may vary the capacitance to accordingly adjust the power output for example to the first power output state to the second power output state to the third power state or to the fourth power output state. In at least some example embodiments the one or more tunable capacitors may be tuned to impedance match the power amplifier or the transmitter to the mobile antenna to maximize the power output. For example the impedance of the power amplifier or the transmitter may be adjusted by supplying the appropriate reactance to match the complex conjugate impedance of the mobile antenna which accordingly maximizes the power output of the mobile antenna . In such example embodiments the first power output state may require a maximum power output.

It will be appreciated that the implementation of tunable capacitors is one of a number of example embodiments to adjust the power output and or match the impedance. For example in at least some example embodiments an impedance bridge may instead be implemented.

In at least some embodiments the memory of the electronic device may include tuning information for each of the different power output states. The tuning information may specify how the tuning capacitors are to be adjusted for the conditions described above e.g. head and hand head only hand only free space .

As noted above the electronic device may detect the presence of a hand in other methods in other embodiments. For example the electronic device may additionally use orientation information of the electronic device to determine whether a hand is in proximity to the electronic device . One such example embodiment will now be illustrated.

Referring now to a flowchart of another example method of detecting a hand in proximity to the electronic device is illustrated. The electronic device may be configured to perform the method of . In at least some example embodiments the processor of the electronic device is configured to perform the method of . One or more applications or modules on the electronic device may contain computer readable instructions which cause the processor of the electronic device to perform the method of . In at least some example embodiments the detection module and or the power adjuster module stored in memory of the electronic device are configured to perform the method of . More particularly the detection module and or the power adjuster module may contain computer readable instructions which when executed cause the processor to perform the method of . In at least some example embodiments the detection module and or the power adjuster module may interface with other components such as the NFC subsystem and or the wireless communication subsystem to perform the method of of .

It will be appreciated that the method of may in at least some example embodiments be provided by other software applications or modules apart from those specifically discussed above. Accordingly any features which are referred to as being performed by the electronic device may be performed by any one or more of the software applications or modules referred to above or other software modules. In at least some example embodiments at least some of the method of may be performed by or may rely on other applications or modules.

The method includes at monitoring an induced voltage at an NFC antenna . is discussed in greater detail above with reference to . More particularly the electronic device passes a current through the NFC antenna which causes the NFC antenna to emit an electro magnetic carrier field . Then the electronic device monitors an induced voltage at the NFC antenna .

At the electronic device may obtain orientation data from the orientation sensor . The orientation data may indicate the orientation of the electronic device relative to the gravitational field of the earth at the particular point in time. That is the orientation data may indicate the relative position of the electronic device which may define any position in space. For example the electronic device may have a tilted orientation flipped orientation table top orientation etc.

Next at the electronic device may determine whether a hand is in proximity to the electronic device based on the induced voltage and the orientation data. That is the electronic device may determine the presence of a hand depending on the induced voltage and the orientation data. The determination based on the induced voltage may be carried out in the same manner as described above with reference to of . Additionally the electronic device may analyze the orientation data in determining whether a hand is near the electronic device .

For example in at least some example embodiments the electronic device may determine whether the electronic device is in a table top orientation and if so may determine that a hand is not near the electronic device . For example an electronic device having a table top orientation may be lying flat on a surface that acts as a load and accordingly induces a voltage within the NFC antenna that is near the rear side of the electronic device . In such example embodiments even though a change in the induced voltage is detected which may be above a pre determined threshold correlating to a hand which is actually attributed to the surface the electronic device may determine that a hand is not near the electronic device as the electronic device has a table top orientation.

While the present application is primarily described in terms of methods a person of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the present application is also directed to various apparatus such as an electronic device including a mobile communications device. The electronic device includes components for performing at least some of the aspects and features of the described methods which may be by way of hardware components such as the memory and or the processor software or any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable medium including program instructions recorded thereon or a computer data signal carrying computer readable program instructions may direct an apparatus to facilitate the practice of the described methods. It is understood that such apparatus articles of manufacture and computer data signals also come within the scope of the present application.

The term computer readable medium as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM .

Example embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system system architecture mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

The various embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this application. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art such variations being within the intended scope of the present application. In particular features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected to create alternative example embodiments including a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternative example embodiments including a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present application as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

