---

title: Ultra wide band achromatic Risley prism scanner
abstract: A system and method for scanning a wide band beam is presented. An apparatus includes a pair of prism triplets. Each prism triplet includes a first wedge prism, a second wedge prism and a third wedge prism all formed with different optical materials. In operation, a beam passing through the wide band team scanning apparatus first passes through the first, second and third wedge prisms of the first prism triplet. The beam then passes through the wedge prisms of the second prism triplet in a mirrored order (the third, then second, then first wedge prisms) than that of the first prism triplet. This apparatus with two prism triplets allows wide band light transmitted through it to emerge with its plurality of different wavelengths of light travelling in the same direction to equalize net dispersive effects each of different wavelengths.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09140901&OS=09140901&RS=09140901
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 09140901
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120808
---
The invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No 09 C 8656. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

The current invention relates generally to apparatus systems and methods for controlling waves. More particularly the apparatus systems and methods relate to steering e.g. scanning achromatic waves using one or more prisms. Specifically the apparatus systems and methods provide for steering achromatic beams with a triplet pairs of prisms so that the beams behave as though they are monochromatic.

In modern optical sensors and imaging systems it is often desirable to steer or deflect incoming beams of light in order to capture data in multiple fields of the beam. This beam steering also known as beam scanning is conventionally performed using a Risley prism scanner. illustrates a prior art Risley prism pair. A Risley prism scanner is an optical device comprised of two identical prisms placed into an optical beam such that the prisms can be rotated about an axis parallel to the optical beam. This action results in the steering of the beam as it leaves the prism pair and for example can act as a beam steering device to direct a laser beam into the far field through a large steerable angle characteristic of each prism s makeup of optical material and wedge angle.

However because the index of refraction of an optical material is a strong function of the wavelength color the amount of deflection interposed on the beam varies strongly with wavelength. Although this is a useful phenomenon in some circumstances it is highly undesirable in many others because it limits the spectral bandwidth of beams that are steerable using a conventional Risley prism scanner. For this reason conventional Risley prism scanners are only useful for monochromatic systems such as single wavelength laser systems or optical imaging systems having very narrow bandpass filters. A need therefore exists for a device system and or apparatus that is capable of steering an achromatic beam so that the beam behaves as if it were a monochromatic beam.

The preferred embodiment of the invention includes a wide band achromatic beam scanning device that uses two multi prisms wherein each prism is comprised of multiple components and each component is constructed of a different type of optical material. The relative position wedge angle orientation and optical material of each component is optimized such that wide band light transmitted through all of the components emerges with all wavelengths travelling in the same direction thereby equalizing net dispersive effects for all wavelengths. Therefore in general most embodiments of the present invention provides for beam scanning devices that steer an achromatic beam so that the beam behaves as if it were a monochromatic beam. Particular applications require different positions orientations and optical materials to achieve these desired effects and therefore it is contemplated that the present invention has a plurality of exemplary embodiments.

In one configuration of the preferred embodiment an apparatus includes a pair of prism triplets. Each prism triplet includes a first wedge prism a second wedge prism and a third wedge prism all formed with different optical materials. In the preferred embodiment the first wedge prism is formed out of zinc sulfide ZnS the second wedge prism is formed out of zinc selenide ZnSe and the third wedge prism is formed out of gallium arsenide GaAs .

In operation a beam passing through the wide band beam scanning apparatus first passes through the first second and third wedge prisms of the first prism triplet. The beam then passes through the wedge prisms of second prism triplet in a mirrored order the third then second then first wedge prisms than that of the first prism triplet. This apparatus with two prism triplets allows wide band light transmitted through it to emerge with its plurality of different wavelengths of light travelling in the same direction to equalize net dispersive effects each of different wavelengths.

In more detail the first wedge prisms is formed with a first planar surface and a second planar surface tilted at a first angle e.g. wedge angle with respect to the first planar surface. The second wedge prism further includes third and fourth planar surfaces at second wedge angle and the third wedge prism further includes fifth and sixth planar surfaces formed with a third wedge angle. In the preferred embodiment the first second and third wedge angles are all different. In some embodiments the third angle is less that the first angle and the second angle and additionally the second angle is greater than the second angle. The third angle can be about 10 degrees the second angle can be about 40.3 degrees and the third angle can be about 13.95 degrees.

The wide band beam scanning device of is now explained in greater detail and this explanation also applies to the scanning device of . Both multi prisms are comprised of three separate prisms . In the preferred embodiment each prism is constructed of a different type of optical material and are generally wedge shaped. The three prisms are stacked together and then the two multi prisms are combined to form a wide band beam scanning device with a left side a right side a top side and a bottom side . Each wedge shaped prism has left and right surfaces that form angles with respect to each other. In the preferred embodiment for example prism has a left surface and a right surface that form a wedge angle at point P of about 13.95 degrees prism has a left surface and a right surface that form a wedge angle at point P of about 40.3 degrees and prism has a left surface and a right surface that form a wedge angle at point P of about 10.0 degrees.

Similar to the scanning device of the scanning device in is formed with two multi prisms that are also comprised of three separate prisms . The three prisms are stacked together and then the two multi prisms are combined to form a wide band beam scanning device with a left side a right side a top side and a bottom side . Also similar to the scanning device of prism has a left surface and a right surface prism has a left surface and a right surface and prism has a left surface and a right surface .

Returning to the relative position wedge angle orientation and optical material type of each prism e.g components is optimized such that wide band light transmitted through all of the components emerges with all wavelengths travelling in the same direction thereby equalizing net dispersive effects for all wavelengths. Particular applications require differing positions orientations and optical materials therefore it is contemplated that the present invention has a plurality of exemplary embodiments. For the application shown in each prism triplet is comprised of three different material types ZnS ZnSe and GaAs. Even in this application there are other material types that could perform equally well as these materials so this example is not meant to limit the usage of other glass types in other embodiments of this invention.

In order to find the best geometrical configuration for each component prism within a multi prism the wedge angle orientation of one of the component prisms should be varied systematically and input into a conventional ray trace program such as Zemax for example. The spectrum of transmitted rays can then be computed for several wavelength values and the relative angles between them. In an exemplary embodiment the optical design program s optimization capability should be used to determine the values of the other component prism wedge angles so as to minimize the angular separation between the emerging wavelengths. The results of the optimization leading to the prism pair illustrated in are shown in Table 1. The last column labeled S DEV is the standard deviation of the differing transmitted ray angles computed over a wavelength. It shows that the prism geometry which gave the best performance was obtained when the wedge angle of the GaAs prism was about 10 degrees. In this analysis the values of and represent the wedge angles of the ZnS ZnSe and GaAs prisms respectively. Therefore an embodiment of the present invention provides a beam scanning device that is achromatic over a large wavelength band.

Example methods may be better appreciated with reference to flow diagrams. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the illustrated methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks can occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from that shown and described. Moreover less than all the illustrated blocks may be required to implement an example methodology. Blocks may be combined or separated into multiple components. Furthermore additional and or alternative methodologies can employ additional not illustrated blocks.

The method passes the first prism triplet output through a second prism triplet at to generate a second prism triplet output. Passing light through two multi prisms in this way ensures all wavelengths of the output travel in the same direction to equalize any net dispersive effects for wavelengths of the original light beam.

In the foregoing description certain terms have been used for brevity clearness and understanding. No unnecessary limitations are to be implied therefrom beyond the requirement of the prior art because such terms are used for descriptive purposes and are intended to be broadly construed. Therefore the invention is not limited to the specific details the representative embodiments and illustrative examples shown and described. Thus this application is intended to embrace alterations modifications and variations that fall within the scope of the appended claims.

Moreover the description and illustration of the invention is an example and the invention is not limited to the exact details shown or described. References to the preferred embodiment an embodiment one example an example and so on indicate that the embodiment s or example s so described may include a particular feature structure characteristic property element or limitation but that not every embodiment or example necessarily includes that particular feature structure characteristic property element or limitation. Furthermore repeated use of the phrase in the preferred embodiment does not necessarily refer to the same embodiment though it may.

