---

title: Auristatin tyramine phosphate salts and auristatin aminoquinoline derivatives and prodrugs thereof
abstract: The present invention relates to new auristatin compounds and prodrugs thereof, compositions comprising them and uses thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09044518&OS=09044518&RS=09044518
owner: ARIZONA BOARD OF REGENTS, A BODY CORPORATE OF THE STATE OF ARIZONA ACTING FOR AND ON BEHALF OF ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY
number: 09044518
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120329
---
This application is a national stage application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT US12 31118 filed Mar. 29 2012 which claims the benefit U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 469 428 filed Mar. 30 2011 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

This invention was made with government support from grants R01 CA 90441 01 05 2R56 CA 090441 06A1 and 5 R01 CA 90441 07 08 awarded by the Division of Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis National Cancer Institute DHHS. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to new auristatin compounds and prodrugs thereof compositions comprising them and uses thereof.

The remarkable anticancer properties of dolastatin 10 1 a unique pentapeptide that was isolated by one of the present inventors from the sea hare has led to intense interest in closely related derivatives auristatins that are suitable for clinical trial. Such structural modifications have provided a number of potential clinical candidates with enhanced efficacy and pharmacological characteristics. Replacement of the dolaphenine Doe unit with phenethylamides to give auristatins PE 2a PHE 2b and E 2c and with pyridylethylamide auristatin PYE has led to active analogues that are undergoing preclinical and clinical development.

Dolastatin 10 and three of the auristatins are in human cancer clinical trials ranging from phase I to phase III and N des methyl auristatin E linked to a CD 30 monoclonal antibody is in marketing as ADCETRIS .

Because of the potency of auristatins they may be delivered linked to a monoclonal antibody. The linker to the monoclonal antibody is stable in extracellular fluid but is cleaved once the conjugate has entered a tumor cell thus activating the antimitotic mechanism at the site where it is most needed. In this way antibody drug conjugates ADCs made with auristatin antimitotic agents have been recognized as having significant preclinical and clinical oncology activity. SGN 75 is in clinical trials and is composed of an anti CD70 antibody conjugated to monomethylauristatin F through a noncleavable maleimidocaproyl linkage.

Conjugation of auristatin drugs to antibodies either directly or indirectly through linkers involves consideration of a variety of factors including the identity and location of the chemical group for conjugation of the drug the mechanism of drug release the structural elements providing drug release and the structural modification to the released free drug. In addition if the drug is to be released after antibody internalization the mechanism of drug release must be consonant with the intracellular trafficking of the conjugate.

Given the promising results of SGN 75 as an agent as a therapeutic agent in clinical trials there is a need to identify additional such agents for therapy.

The present invention relates to new auristatin compounds and prodrugs thereof. The compounds are represented by formula I 

Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H alkyl alkenyl alkynyl and a Linker Unit 

Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of lithium Li sodium Na potassium K hydrogen H morpholine quinine tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane TRIS serine nitroarginine and a Linker Unit and

In preferred embodiments Rand Rare independently alkyl or a Linker Unit. Preferably Rand Rare methyl. In other preferred embodiments one of Rand Ris a Linker Unit.

In preferred embodiments Rand Rare sodium Na . In other preferred embodiments one of Rand Ris a Linker Unit.

In some embodiments the compounds of formula I may be conjugated to an antibody. In some embodiments the compounds of formula I are conjugated through Ror R. In other embodiments the compounds of formula I are conjugated through Ror R. In yet other embodiments the compounds of formula I are conjugated through R.

The present invention also relates to pharmaceutically acceptable salts or solvates of the compounds of formula I .

The present invention also relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The compound may be selected from any of the compounds described above.

In some embodiments the pharmaceutical composition comprises a combination of compounds of formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salts or solvates thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In some embodiments the pharmaceutical composition further comprises a therapeutically effective amount of a chemotherapeutic agent. The chemotherapeutic agent may be selected from the group consisting of a tubulin forming inhibitor a topoisomerase inhibitor and a DNA binder.

The present invention also relates to methods of using the compounds of the present invention or pharmaceutical compositions thereof as auristatin prodrugs. The compound and pharmaceutical composition thereof may be selected from any of those described above.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a method of killing or inhibiting the proliferation of tumor cells or cancer cells comprising contacting the tumor cells or cancer cells with a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof in an amount effective to kill or inhibit the proliferation of the tumor cells or cancer cells. In some embodiments the method may further comprise contacting the cells with an effective amount of a chemotherapeutic agent.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a method for killing or inhibiting the replication of a cell that produces an autoimmune disease. The method comprises contacting the cell with a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof in an amount effective to kill or inhibit the replication of the cell.

In additional embodiments the present invention provides a method of determining inhibition of cellular proliferation by a compound of formula I comprising contacting cells in a cell culture medium to the compound and measuring cytotoxic activity of the compound whereby proliferation of the cells is inhibited. The methods may optionally further comprise culturing the cells for a period from about 6 hours to about 5 days.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of measuring cell viability in the presence of a compound of formula I . The method comprises contacting cells in a cell culture medium with the compound of formula I culturing the cells for a period from about 6 hours to about 5 days preferably 96 hours and measuring cell viability.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method for treating cancer in a patient comprising administering to the patient a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof in an amount effective to treat cancer. In some embodiments the method may further comprise administering to the patient an effective amount of a chemotherapeutic agent.

In additional embodiments the present invention provides a method of inhibiting the growth of tumor cells that overexpress a tumor associated antigen in a patient comprising administering to the patient a compound of formula I conjugated to an antibody that is specific for the tumor associated antigen wherein the compound is administered in an amount effective to inhibit the growth of tumor cells in the patient. The method may optionally further comprise administering to the patient a chemotherapeutic agent in an amount effective to inhibit the growth of tumor cells in the patient.

In some embodiments the compound may sensitize the tumor cells to the chemotherapeutic agent. In some embodiments the compound may induce cell death. In other embodiments the compound may induce apoptosis.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method for treating an autoimmune disease in a patient comprising administering to the patient a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof in an amount effective to treat the autoimmune disease.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method for treating an infectious disease in a patient comprising administering to the patient a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof in an amount effective to treat the infectious disease.

In some of the methods of the present invention the compound of formula I is administered to a patient intravenously. In certain embodiments the compound is formulated in a unit dosage injectable form.

In the cancer therapy methods of the invention the cancer may be any cancer including but not limited to a cancer selected from the group consisting of breast ovarian stomach endometrial salivary gland lung kidney colon colorectal thyroid pancreatic prostate and bladder cancer.

The present invention also relates to uses of the compound of formula I in the manufacture of a medicament for treating cancer an autoimmune disease or an infectious disease.

In additional embodiments the present invention provides an article of manufacture comprising a compound of formula I a container and a package insert or label indicating that the compound can be used to treat cancer characterized by the overexpression of at least one tumor associated antigen. The compound may be selected from any of the compounds described above.

In order that the invention herein described may be fully understood the following detailed description is set forth.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as those commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention suitable methods and materials are described below. The materials methods and examples are illustrative only and are not intended to be limiting. All publications patents and other documents mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Throughout this specification the word comprise or variations such as comprises or comprising will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or groups of integers but not the exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.

The term about means within plus or minus 10 of a stated value. For example about 100 would refer to any number between 90 and 110.

The present invention provides new auristatin compounds and prodrugs thereof. The compounds are represented by formula I 

Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H alkyl alkenyl alkynyl and a Linker Unit 

Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of lithium Li sodium Na potassium K hydrogen H morpholine quinine tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane TRIS serine nitroarginine and a Linker Unit and

As used herein the term alkyl refers to both straight and branched chains containing one to twelve carbon atoms. The terms alkenyl and alkynyl include both straight and branched chains containing two to twelve carbon atoms.

The term Linker Unit refers to a chemical moiety comprising a covalent bond or a chain of atoms that covalently attaches an antibody to a compound of formula I . Suitable Linker Units are known in the art and include those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 745 394. Such Linker Units include but are not limited to a divalent radical such as an alkyldiyl an aryldiyl a heteroaryldiyl moieties such as CR O CR repeating units of alkyloxy e.g. polyethylenoxy PEG polymethyleneoxy and alkylamino e.g. polyethyleneamino Jeffamine and diacid ester and amides including succinate succinamide diglycolate malonate and caproamide. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 745 394 at col. 39 lines 20 26.

The Stretcher Unit A when present is capable of linking an antibody to an Amino Acid Unit W . See U.S. Pat. No. 7 745 394 at col. 64 lines 2 17. The antibody has a functional group that can form a bond with a functional group of a Stretcher. Useful functional groups that can be present on an antibody either naturally or via chemical manipulation include but are not limited to sulfhydryl SH amino hydroxyl carboxy the anomeric hydroxyl group of a carbohydrate and carboxyl. In one aspect the antibody functional groups are sulfhydryl and amino. Sulfhydryl groups can be generated by reduction of an intramolecular disulfide bond of an antibody. Alternatively sulfhydryl groups can be generated by reaction of an amino group of a lysine moiety of an antibody using 2 iminothiolane Traut s reagent or another sulfhydryl generating reagent.

The Amino Acid Unit W when present links the Stretcher Unit to the Spacer Unit if the Spacer Unit is present links the Stretcher Unit to the compound of formula I if the Spacer Unit is absent and links the antibody to the compound of formula I if the Stretcher Unit and Spacer Unit are absent. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 745 394 at col. 66 lines 15 22.

W is a dipeptide tripeptide tetrapeptide pentapeptide hexapeptide heptapeptide octapeptide nonapeptide decapeptide undecapeptide or dodecapeptide unit. The Amino Acid may be any amino acid. In some embodiments the Amino Acid Unit comprises natural amino acids. In other embodiments the Amino Acid Unit comprises non natural amino acids.

The Spacer Unit Y when present links an Amino Acid Unit to the compound of formula I when an Amino Acid Unit is present. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 745 394 at col. 69 lines 2 7. Alternately the Spacer Unit links the Stretcher Unit to the compound of formula I when the Amino Acid Unit is absent. The Spacer Unit also links the compound of formula I to the antibody when both the Amino Acid Unit and Stretcher Unit are absent.

Suitable Spacer Units include but are not limited to a glycine glycine unit a glycine unit p aminobenzyl alcohol PAB unit or aromatic compounds that are electronically similar to the PAB group such as 2 aminoimidazol 5 methanol derivatives Hay et al. 1999 Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 9 2237 and ortho or para aminobenzylacetals spacers that undergo cyclization upon amide bond hydrolysis such as substituted and unsubstituted 4 aminobutyric acid amides Rodrigues et al. Chemistry Biology 1995 2 223 appropriately substituted bicyclo 2.2.1 and bicyclo 2.2.2 ring systems Storm et al. J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 1972 94 5815 and 2 aminophenylpropionic acid amides Amsberry et al. J. Org. Chem. 1990 55 5867 and a branched bis hydroxymethyl styrene BHMS unit.

In the latter preferred embodiments the compounds of formula I are in the form of water soluble phosphate salts and as such are prodrugs. The synthesis of auristatins suitable for formulation of such salts is of considerable interest because the use of water soluble phosphate derivatives has increased the bioavailability of a number of anticancer drugs including combretastatins A 1 and A 4 pancratistatin taxol and etoposide. The salts are dephosphorylated by serum phosphatases to yield the active drug which is then transported intracellularly. Advantageously these compounds can be delivered without the need for conjugation to a macromolecule such as an antibody.

In preferred embodiments when the compounds of formula I are in the form of phosphate salts Rand Rare sodium Na . In other preferred embodiments one of Ror Ris a Linker Unit.

In preferred embodiments each Ris H. In other preferred embodiments one Ris a Linker Unit and the others are H.

In preferred embodiments Rand Rare independently alkyl or a Linker Unit. Preferably Rand Rare methyl. In other preferred embodiments one of Ror Ris a Linker Unit.

In some embodiments the compound of formula I is conjugated directly or indirectly to an antibody and as such is a prodrug. The compound may be conjugated to an antibody through a Linker Unit at R R R Ror R. The Linker Unit can operate to provide a suitable release of the compound of formula I . The preparation of antibody drug conjugates is known to those of skill in the art.

The term antibody herein is used in the broadest sense and specifically covers intact monoclonal antibodies polyclonal antibodies monospecific antibodies multispecific antibodies e.g. bispecific antibodies and antibody fragments that exhibit the desired biological activity. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 498 298 at col. 21 lines 21 26. An antibody may be of any type or class e.g. IgG IgE IgM IgD and IgA or subclass e.g. IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 IgG4 IgA1 and IgA2 . The antibody may be derived from any suitable species. In some embodiments the antibody is of human or murine origin. An antibody may be for example human humanized or chimeric.

The terms specifically binds and specific binding refer to antibody binding to a predetermined antigen. Typically the antibody binds with an affinity of at least about 1 10M and binds to the predetermined antigen with an affinity that is at least two fold greater than its affinity for binding to a non specific antigen e.g. BSA casein other than the predetermined antigen or a closely related antigen.

The term monoclonal antibody as used herein refers to an antibody obtained from a population of substantially homogeneous antibodies and thus the individual antibodies are identical except for possible naturally occurring mutations that may have occurred. Monoclonal antibodies are highly specific and are directed against a single antigenic site. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 498 298 at col. 21 line 66 col. 22 line 5.The modifier monoclonal is not to be construed as requiring production of the antibody by any particular method. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 498 298 at col. 22 lines 12 16.

The term monoclonal antibodies specifically includes chimeric antibodies. A chimeric antibody refers to an antibody in which a portion of the heavy and or light chain is identical to or homologous with a corresponding sequence of an antibody derived from a particular species or belonging to a particular antibody class or subclass and the remainder of the chain s is identical to or homologous with a corresponding sequences of an antibody derived from another species or belonging to another antibody class or subclass as well as fragments thereof exhibiting the desired biological activity. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 498 298 at col. 22 lines 25 34.

The compounds of formula I may be conjugated to any antibody e.g. an antibody that binds at least one of CD19 CD20 CD30 CD33 CD70 BCMA Glypican 3 Liv 1 and Lewis Y antigen.

In another embodiment the compound of formula I may be conjugated to an antibody that is immunospecific for the treatment of autoimmune diseases. Useful antibodies include but are not limited to anti nuclear antibody anti dsDNA anti ssDNA anti cardiolipin antibody IgM IgG anti phospholipid antibody IgM IgG anti SM antibody anti mitochondrial antibody thyroid antibody microsomal antibody thyroglobulin antibody anti SCL 70 antibody anti Jo antibody anti U1RNP antibody anti La SSB antibody anti SSA anti SSB antibody anti perital cells antibody anti histones antibody anti RNP antibody C ANCA antibody P ANCA antibody anti centromere antibody anti fibrillarin antibody and anti GBM antibody. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 498 298 at col. 82 lines 51 61.

In other embodiments the antibodies can bind to a receptor or a receptor complex expressed on an activated lymphocyte. For example the antibody binds to an activated lymphocyte that is associated with an autoimmune disease.

In other embodiments the compound of formula I may be conjugated to an antibody that is immunospecific for a viral or a microbial antigen. The antibodies may be chimeric humanized or human monoclonal antibodies. As used herein the term viral antigen includes but is not limited to any viral peptide polypeptide protein e.g. HIV gp120 HIV nef RSV F glycoprotein influenza virus neuraminidase influenza virus hemagglutinin HTLV tax herpes simplex virus glycoprotein e.g. gB gC gD and gE and hepatitis B surface antigen that is capable of eliciting an immune response. As used herein the term microbial antigen includes but is not limited to any microbial peptide polypeptide protein saccharide polysaccharide or lipid molecule e.g. a bacterial fungal pathogenic protozoan or yeast polypeptide including e.g. LPS and capsular polysaccharide that is capable of eliciting an immune response. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 498 298 at col. 83 lines 16 31.

Other useful antibodies include but are not limited to antibodies against the antigens from pathogenic strains of bacteria Vibrio spp. and spp. pathogenic fungi and protozoa or helminths and hookworms . See U.S. Pat. No. 7 498 298 at col. 83 lines 58 23.

Other useful antibodies include but are not limited to antibodies against antigens of pathogenic viruses including as examples and not by limitation Poxyiridae Herpesviridae Herpes Simplex virus 1 Herpes Simplex virus 2 Adenoviridae Papovaviridae Enteroviridae Picornaviridae Parvoviridae Reoviridae Retroviridae influenza viruses parainfluenza viruses mumps measles respiratory syncytial virus rubella Arboviridae Rhabdoviridae Arenaviridae Hepatitis A virus Hepatitis B virus Hepatitis C virus Hepatitis E virus Non A Non B Hepatitis virus Rhinoviridae Coronaviridae Rotoviridae and Human Immunodeficiency Virus. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 498 298 at col. 84 lines 24 35.

The compounds of this invention may be prepared by methods known to those skilled in the art for analogous compounds as illustrated by the preparative examples that follow.

According to another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein refers to pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of a compound e.g. a drug a drug attached to a linker i.e. a drug linker compound or a drug linker attached to a ligand or an antibody . The phrase includes acid additions salts which can be formed with an amino group on the compound of formula I . Exemplary salts include but are not limited to sulfate citrate acetate oxalate chloride bromide iodide nitrate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate lactate salicylate acid citrate tartrate oleate tannate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucuronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate and pamoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may include an acetate ion a succinate ion or other counter ion. The counter ion may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may contain more than one charged atom and more than one counter ion. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 498 298 at col. 42 lines 5 31.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier refers to a diluent adjuvant or excipient with which a compound of the invention may be administered. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include any and all solvents diluents or other liquid vehicles dispersions or suspension aids surface active agents isotonic agents thickening or emulsifying agents preservatives solid binders lubricants and the like as suited to the particular dosage form desired. Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Sixteenth Edition E. W. Martin Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1980 discloses various carriers used in formulating pharmaceutically acceptable compositions and known techniques for the preparation thereof. Except insofar as any conventional carrier medium is incompatible with the compounds of the invention such as by producing any undesirable biological effect or otherwise interacting in a deleterious manner with any other component s of the pharmaceutically acceptable composition its use is contemplated to be within the scope of this invention. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include but are not limited to ion exchangers alumina aluminum stearate lecithin serum proteins such as human serum albumin buffer substances such as phosphates glycine sorbic acid or potassium sorbate partial glyceride mixtures of saturated vegetable fatty acids water salts or electrolytes such as protamine sulfate disodium hydrogen phosphate potassium hydrogen phosphate sodium chloride zinc salts colloidal silica magnesium trisilicate polyvinyl pyrrolidone polyacrylates waxes polyethylene polyoxypropylene block polymers wool fat sugars such as lactose glucose and sucrose starches such as corn starch and potato starch cellulose and its derivatives such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose ethyl cellulose and cellulose acetate powdered tragacanth malt gelatin talc excipients such as cocoa butter and suppository waxes oils such as peanut oil cottonseed oil safflower oil sesame oil olive oil corn oil and soybean oil glycols such a propylene glycol or polyethylene glycol esters such as ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate agar buffering agents such as magnesium hydroxide and aluminum hydroxide alginic acid pyrogen free water isotonic saline Ringer s solution ethyl alcohol and phosphate buffer solutions as well as other non toxic compatible lubricants such as sodium lauryl sulfate and magnesium stearate as well as coloring agents releasing agents coating agents sweetening flavoring and perfuming agents preservatives and antioxidants can also be present in the composition according to the judgment of the formulator.

The pharmaceutically acceptable carrier may be solid or particulate so that the compositions are for example in tablet or powder form. The carrier s can be liquid.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may optionally further comprise a pharmaceutical agent used in the treatment of cancer an autoimmune disease or an infectious disease. In some embodiments the compositions further comprise a chemotherapeutic agent in a therapeutically effective amount. The chemotherapeutic agent may be selected from the group consisting of a tubulin forming inhibitor a topoisomerase inhibitor and a DNA binder.

The term therapeutically effective amount refers to an amount of a compound of formula I effective to treat a disease or disorder in a patient. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the compound may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the compound may inhibit the growth of and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can for example be measured by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR . See U.S. Pat. No. 7 498 298 at col. 28 lines 31 44.

The pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated for administration in the form of a solid or liquid and adapted for parenteral ocular and intra tumor administration. Parenteral administration includes subcutaneous injections intravenous intramuscular or intrasternal injection or infusion techniques. In one aspect the compositions are administered parenterally. In preferred embodiments the compositions are administered intravenously. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 498 298 at col. 152 lines 33 43.

Pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated such that the compounds of the invention are bioavailable upon administration to the patient. Compositions may take the form of one or more dosage units. For example a tablet may be a single dosage unit and a container of the compound of the invention in liquid form may hold a plurality of dosage units. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 498 298 at col. 152 lines 44 51.

The composition may be in the form of a liquid e.g. a solution emulsion or suspension. In a composition for administration by injection the pharmaceutical composition includes one or more of a surfactant preservative wetting agent dispersing agent suspending agent buffer stabilizer and isotonic agent. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 498 298 at col. 153 lines 27 30.

Liquid pharmaceutical compositions may also include one or more of the following sterile diluents such as water for injection saline solution preferably physiological saline Ringer s solution isotonic sodium chloride fixed oils such as synthetic mono or digylcerides which can serve as the solvent or suspending medium polyethylene glycols glycerin cyclodextrin propylene glycol or other solvents antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl paraben antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid buffers such as acetates citrates phosphates or amino acids and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 498 298 at col. 153 lines 31 43.

The amount of compound of formula I present in the pharmaceutical composition will depend on a variety of factors. Relevant factors include without limitation the type of patient e.g. human the particular form of compound the manner of administration and the composition employed.

Preferably the compositions are formulated so that a dosage of between about 0.01 to about 20 mg kg body weight day of the compound of formula I can be administered to a patient receiving the composition. In some embodiments the dosage administered to the patient is between about 0.01 mg kg and about 10 mg kg of the patient s body weight. In other embodiments the dosage administered to the patient is between about 0.1 mg kg and about 10 mg kg of the patient s body weight. In yet another embodiment the dosage administered to the patient is between about 0.1 mg kg and about 5 mg kg of the patient s body weight. In yet another embodiment the dosage administered is between about 0.1 mg kg and about 3 mg kg of the patient s body weight. In yet another embodiment the dosage administered is between about 1 mg kg and about 3 mg kg of the patient s body weight.

It should also be understood that a specific dosage and treatment regimen for any particular patient will depend upon a variety of factors including the activity of the specific compound employed the age body weight general health sex diet time of administration rate of excretion drug combination and the judgment of the treating physician and the nature and the severity of the particular disorder being treated. The amount of active ingredients will also depend upon the particular compound in the composition. The amount of active ingredient can be determined by standard clinical techniques. In addition in vitro or in vivo assays can optionally be employed to help identify optimal dosage ranges.

The present invention also provides methods of using the compounds of formula I or pharmaceutical compositions thereof. The compounds and compositions are useful for killing or inhibiting the proliferation of tumor cells or cancer cells and for killing or inhibiting the replication of a cell that produces an autoimmune disease. The compounds and compositions are also useful for treating cancer an autoimmune disease or an infectious disease in a patient.

In some embodiments the present invention provides methods of killing or inhibiting the proliferation of tumor cells or cancer cells. In some embodiments the method comprises contacting the tumor cells or cancer cells with a compound of the invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof in an amount effective to kill or inhibit the proliferation of the tumor cells or cancer cells. In alternate embodiments the method comprises contacting the tumor cells or cancer cells with a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I in an amount effective to kill or inhibit the proliferation of the tumor cells or cancer cells.

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to the physiological condition or disorder in mammals characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 498 298 at col. 29 lines 11 14.

Exemplary cancers include solid tumors including but not limited to fibrosarcoma myxosarcoma liposarcoma chondrosarcoma osteogenic sarcoma chordoma angiosarcoma endotheliosarcoma lymphangiosarcoma lymphangioendotheliosarcoma synovioma mesothelioma Ewing s tumor leiomyosarcoma rhabdomyosarcoma colon cancer colorectal cancer kidney cancer pancreatic cancer bone cancer breast cancer ovarian cancer prostate cancer esophogeal cancer stomach cancer oral cancer nasal cancer throat cancer squamous cell carcinoma basal cell carcinoma adenocarcinoma sweat gland carcinoma sebaceous gland carcinoma papillary carcinoma papillary adenocarcinomas cystadenocarcinoma medullary carcinoma bronchogenic carcinoma renal cell carcinoma hepatoma bile duct carcinoma choriocarcinoma seminoma embryonal carcinoma Wilms tumor cervical cancer uterine cancer testicular cancer small cell lung carcinoma bladder carcinoma lung cancer epithelial carcinoma glioma glioblastoma multiforme astrocytoma medulloblastoma craniopharyngioma ependymoma pinealoma hemangioblastoma acoustic neuroma oligodendroglioma meningioma skin cancer melanoma neuroblastoma retinoblastoma blood borne cancers including but not limited to acute lymphoblastic leukemia ALL acute lymphoblastic B cell leukemia acute lymphoblastic T cell leukemia acute myeloblastic leukemia AML acute promyelocytic leukemia APL acute monoblastic leukemia acute erythroleukemic leukemia acute megakaryoblastic leukemia acute myelomonocytic leukemia acute nonlymphocyctic leukemia acute undifferentiated leukemia chronic myelocytic leukemia CML chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL hairy cell leukemia multiple myeloma acute and chronic leukemias lymphoblastic myelogenous lymphocytic myelocytic leukemias lymphomas Hodgkin s disease non Hodgkin s lymphoma Waldenstrom s macroglobulinemia heavy chain disease polycythemia vera. In preferred embodiments the cancer is selected from the group consisting of breast ovarian stomach endometrial salivary gland lung kidney colon colorectal thyroid pancreatic prostate and bladder cancer. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 498 298 at cols. 157 158 Table 3.

In some embodiments the method further comprises contacting the cells with an effective amount of a chemotherapeutic agent or a pharmaceutical composition thereof. The chemotherapeutic agent can be selected from the group consisting of a tubulin forming inhibitor a topoisomerase inhibitor and a DNA binder.

The cells may be contacted with the compound of formula I and the chemotherapeutic agent simultaneously in either the same or different compositions or sequentially in any order. The amounts of compound of formula I and the chemotherapeutic agent and the relative timings of their contact will be selected in order to achieve the desired combined effect.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method for killing or inhibiting the replication of a cell that produces an autoimmune disease. In some embodiments the method comprises comprising contacting the cell with a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof in an amount effective to kill or inhibit the replication of the cell. In other embodiments the method comprises contacting the cell with a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I in an amount effective to kill or inhibit the replication of the cell.

In some embodiments the cells are obtained from a patient having an autoimmune disease or from a relevant cell line.

Exemplary autoimmune diseases include but not limited to Th2 lymphocyte related disorders e.g. atopic dermatitis atopic asthma rhinoconjunctivitis allergic rhinitis Omenn s syndrome systemic sclerosis and graft versus host disease Th1 lymphocyte related disorders e.g. rheumatoid arthritis multiple sclerosis psoriasis Sjogren s syndrome Hashimoto s thyroiditis Grave s disease primary biliary cirrhosis Wegener s granulomatosis and tuberculosis activated B lymphocyte related disorders e.g. systemic lupus erythematosus Goodpasture s syndrome rheumatoid arthritis and type I diabetes active chronic hepatitis Addison s disease allergic alveolitis allergic reaction allergic rhinitis Alport s syndrome anaphylaxis ankylosing spondylitis anti phosholipid syndrome arthritis aspergillosis atopic allergy atropic aermatitis atropic rhinitis Behcet s disease bird fancier s lung bronchial asthma Caplan s syndrome cardiomyopathy celiac disease chagas disease chronic glomerulonephritis Cogan s syndrome cold agglutinin disease congenital rubella infection CREST syndrome Crohn s disease cryoglobulinemia Cushing s syndrome dermatomyositis discoid lupus Dressler s syndrome echovirus infection encephalomyelitis endocrine opthalmopathy Epstein Barr virus infection equine heaves erythematosis Evan s syndrome Felty s syndrome fibromyalgia Fuch s cyclitis gastric atrophy gastrointestinal allergy giant cell arteritis glomerulonephritis Goodpasture s syndrome Guillain Barre disease hemolytic anemia Henoch Schonlein purpura idiopathic adrenal atrophy idiopathic pulmonary fibritis IgA nephropathy inflammatory bowel diseases insulin dependent diabetes mellitus juvenile arthritis juvenile diabetes mellitus Type I Lambert Eaton syndrome laminitis lichen planus lupoid hepatitis lupus lymphopenia Meniere s disease mixed connective tissue disease multiple sclerosis myasthenia gravis pernicious anemia polyglandular syndromes presenile dementia primary agammaglobulinemia psoriasis psoriatic arthritis Raynauds phenomenon recurrent abortion Reiter s syndrome rheumatic fever Sampter s syndrome schistosomiasis Schmidt s syndrome scleroderma Shulman s syndrome stiff man syndrome sympathetic ophthalmia Takayasu s arteritis temporal arteritis thyroiditis thrombocytopenia thyrotoxicosis toxic epidermal necrolysis type B insulin resistance type I diabetes mellitus ulcerative colitis uveitis vitiligo Waldenstrom s macroglobulemia.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of determining inhibition of cellular proliferation by a compound of formula I . The method comprises contacting cells in a cell culture medium with the compound of formula I and measuring the cytotoxic activity of the compound whereby proliferation of the cells is inhibited. In some embodiments the method further comprises culturing the cells for a period from about 6 hours to about 5 days.

Suitable cell lines are known to those skilled in the art and include those used for evaluating other auristatin drugs. Such cell lines include but are not limited to 786 O a renal cell carcinoma Caki 1 a renal cell carcinoma L428 a Hodgkin s disease cell line UMRC 3 a renal cell carcinoma LP 1 a human myeloma cell line and U251 a glioblastoma cell line.

In some embodiments the cells are obtained from a patient having a disease to be treated e.g. cancer an autoimmune disease or an infectious disease or from a relevant cell line.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of measuring cell viability in the presence of a compound of formula I . The method comprises contacting cells in a cell culture medium with the compound of formula I culturing the cells for a period from about 6 hours to about 5 days preferably 96 hours and measuring cell viability.

In some embodiments the cells are obtained from a patient having a disease to be treated e.g. cancer an autoimmune disease or an infectious disease or from a relevant cell line.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method for treating cancer in a patient. In some embodiments the method comprises administering to the patient a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof in an amount effective to treat cancer. In other embodiments the method comprises administering to the patient a composition comprising a compound of formula I in an amount effective to treat cancer.

The terms treat or treatment unless otherwise indicated by context refer to therapeutic treatment and prophylactic measures to prevent relapse and to inhibit or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the development or spread of cancer. For purposes of this invention treatment includes but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already having the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 498 298 at col. 43 lines 13 29.

In the context of cancer the term treating includes any or all of inhibiting growth of tumor cells cancer cells or of a tumor inhibiting replication of tumor cells or cancer cells lessening of overall tumor burden or decreasing the number of cancerous cells and ameliorating one or more symptoms associated with the disease.

The term patient as used herein includes but is not limited to a human rat mouse guinea pig monkey pig goat cow horse dog cat bird and fowl. In preferred embodiments the patient is a human.

In some embodiments the patient receives an additional treatment such as radiation therapy surgery chemotherapy with another chemotherapeutic agent or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the compound of the invention is administered concurrently with the chemotherapeutic agent or with radiation therapy or with surgery. In other embodiments the chemotherapeutic agent or radiation therapy or surgery is administered or performed prior or subsequent to administration of a compound of the invention.

In some embodiments the method for treating cancer further comprises administering to the patient an effective amount of a chemotherapeutic agent. Any one or a combination of the chemotherapeutic agents such a standard of care chemotherapeutic agent s can be administered. In some embodiments the chemotherapeutic agent may be selected from the group consisting of a tubulin forming inhibitor a topoisomerase inhibitor and a DNA binder.

The compound of formula I and the chemotherapeutic agent may be administered simultaneously in either the same or different pharmaceutical composition or sequentially in any order. The amounts of compound of formula I and the chemotherapeutic agent and the relative timings of their administration will be selected in order to achieve the desired combined effect.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inhibiting the growth of tumor cells that overexpress a tumor associated antigen in a patient. In some embodiments the method comprises administering to the patient a compound of formula I conjugated to an antibody that is specific for said tumor associated antigen wherein the compound of formula I is administered in amount effective to inhibit growth of tumor cells in the patient. In alternate embodiments the method comprises administering to the patient a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I conjugated to an antibody that is specific for said tumor associated antigen wherein the compound of formula I is administered in amount effective to inhibit growth of tumor cells in the patient. The method may optionally further comprise administering to the patient a chemotherapeutic agent or a pharmaceutical composition thereof in an amount effective to inhibit the growth of tumor cells in the patient.

In some embodiments the compound induces cell death. In other embodiments the compound induces apoptosis.

In some embodiments the tumor cells are associated with a cancer selected from the group consisting of breast ovarian stomach endometrial salivary gland lung kidney colon colorectal thyroid pancreatic prostate and bladder cancer.

In some embodiments the compound of formula I is conjugated to an antibody selected from the group consisting of CD19 CD20 CD30 CD33 CD70 BCMA Glypican 3 Liv 1 and Lewis Y.

In some embodiments this method may be used to determine the efficacy and dosing of a compound of formula I or pharmaceutical compositions thereof. In such embodiments the patient is an animal engineered to be or is a model of a disease involving the overexpression of a target protein to which the compound of formula I is conjugated. The animal is selected from the group consisting of a rat mouse guinea pig monkey pig goat cow horse dog cat bird and fowl.

For example to test the efficacy in a renal xenograft model 786 O renal cell xenografts are implanted subcutaneously into immunodeficient mice 5 10cells per mouse . Tumor volumes are calculated using the formula 0.5 L W where L and W are the longer and shorter of two bidirectional measurements. Glioblastoma xenograft models are prepared using e.g. a DBTRGO5 MG glioblastoma subcutaneous model. DBTRGO5 MG cells are implanted subcutaneously into immunodeficient mice 5 10cells per mouse . Tumor volumes are calculated using the formula 0.5 L W where L and W are the longer and shorter of two bidirectional measurements. In the same manner other tumor models can be generated and tested.

Tolerability of the compounds measured as maximum tolerated dose MTD is determined in mice based on animals weight loss after treatment. Animals were usually monitored for 14 days. A compound is considered to be tolerated at a determined dose if single iv treatment at such dose results in a transient weight loss of no more than 20 of initial body weight of animals and no other signs of toxicity are observed.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method for treating an autoimmune disease in a patient. In some embodiments the method comprises administering to the patient a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof in an amount effective to treat the autoimmune disease. In other embodiments the method comprises administering to the patient a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I in an amount effective to treat the autoimmune disease.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method for treating an infectious disease in a patient. In some embodiments the method comprises administering to the patient a compound of the invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof in an amount effective to treat the infectious disease. In other embodiments the method comprises administering to the patient a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I in an amount effective to treat the infectious disease.

Examples of infectious diseases that may be treated by the compounds of formula I include but are not limited to bacterial diseases diphtheria pertussis occult bacteremia urinary tract infection gastroenteritis cellulitis epiglottitis tracheitis adenoid hypertrophy retropharyngeal abcess impetigo eethyma pneumonia endocarditis septic arthritis pneumococca peritonitis bactennia meningitis acute purulent meningitis urethritis cervicitis proctitis pharyngitis salpingitis epididymitis gonorrhea syphilis listeriosis anthrax nocardiosis typhoid fever dysentery conjunctivitis sinusitis brucellosis tullaremia cholera bubonic plague tetanus necrotizing enteritis actinomycosis mixed anaerobic infections syphilis relapsing fever leptospirosis lyme disease rat bite fever tuberculosis lymphadenitis leprosy chlamydial pneumonia trachoma inclusion conjunctivitis systemic fungal diseases histoplamosis coccidiodomycosis blastomycosis sporotrichosis cryptococcsis systemic candidiasis aspergillosis mucormycosis mycetoma rickettsial diseases typhus Rocky Mountain spotted fever ehrlichiosis eastern tick borne rickettsioses rickettsialpox Q fever bartonellosis parasitic diseases malaria babesiosis African sleeping sickness Chagas disease leishmaniasis dum dum fever toxoplasmosis meningoencephalitis keratitis entamebiasis giardiasis cryptosporidiasis isosporiasis cyclosporiasis microsporidiosis whipworm infection hookworm infection threadworm infection ocular larva migrans trichinosis Guinea worm disease lymphatic filariasis loiasis river blindness canine heartworm infection schistosomiasis swimmer s itch oriental lung fluke oriental liver fluke fascioliasis fasciolopsiasis opisthorchiasis tapeworm infections hydatid disease alveolar hydatid disease viral diseases measles subacute sclerosing panencephalitis common cold mumps rubella roseola fifth disease chickenpox respiratory syncytial virus infection croup bronchiolitis infectious mononucleosis poliomyelitis herpangina hand foot and mouth disease Bornholm disease genital herpes genital warts aseptic meningitis myocarditis pericarditis gastroenteritis acquired immunodeficiency syndrome AIDS human immunodeficiency virus HIV Reye s syndrome Kawasaki syndrome influenza bronchitis viral walking pneumonia acute febrile respiratory disease acute pharyngoconjunctival fever epidemic keratoconjunctivitis herpes simplex virus 1 HSV 1 herpes simplex virus 2 HSV 2 shingles cytomegalic inclusion disease rabies progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy kuru fatal familial insomnia Creutzfeldt Jakob disease Gerstmann Straussler Scheinker disease tropical spastic paraparesis western equine encephalitis California encephalitis St. Louis encephalitis yellow fever dengue lymphocytic choriomeningitis Lassa fever hemorrhagic fever hantavirus pulmonary syndrome Marburg virus infections Ebola virus infections and smallpox.

Any compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein may be used in the methods of the present invention.

In some of the above methods the compound of formula I is administered to a patient in a composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In some of these embodiments the composition is administered intravenously. In certain embodiments the compound is formulated in a unit dosage injectable form.

In an additional embodiment the present invention provides the use of a compound of formula I in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of any of the above mentioned cancers autoimmune diseases or infectious diseases. It will be appreciated that a compound of formula I and one or more chemotherapeutic agents may be used in the manufacture of the medicament. The compound of formula I may be any of the compounds described above.

In additional embodiments the present invention provides an article of manufacture comprising a compound of formula I a container and a package insert or label indicating that the compound can be used to treat cancer characterized by the overexpression of at least one tumor associated antigen. The compound of formula I may be any of the compounds described above.

The term package insert refers to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products and containing information about the indication s usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 498 298 at col. 34 lines 16 20.

In order that this invention be more fully understood the following examples are set forth. These examples are for the purpose of illustration only and are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention in any way.

N Boc Dolaproine and Dov Val Dil.TFA were synthesized as described earlier.Reagents and anhydrous solvents were purchased from Acros Organics Fisher Scientific Sigma Aldrich Chemical Company and Lancaster Synthesis and were used as received. Diisopropylethylamine DIEA was redistilled over potassium hydroxide. Dibenzylphosphite was redistilled before use bp 160 C. at 0.1 mm Hg . For thin layer chromatography Analtech silica gel GHLF Uniplates were used and visualized with short wave UV irradiation and use of a permanganate dip followed by heating. Solvent extracts of aqueous solutions were dried over magnesium sulfate. For column chromatography silica gel 230 400 mesh ASTM from E. Merck Darmstadt Germany was used. For ion exchange chromatography Dowex 50W 8 400 hydrogen form resin Sigma Aldrich was washed with MeOH hydrochloric acid 1 M and deionized HO before use. The cation forms of the resin were prepared by elution of an aqueous solution 1 M of the corresponding base followed by deionized HO.

Melting points are uncorrected and were determined with a Fischer Johns melting point apparatus. Optical rotations were measured by use of a Perkin Elmer 241 polarimeter and the values are given in 10deg cmg. The H C and P NMR spectra were recorded using Varian Gemini 300 and Unity 400 and 500 instruments with deuterated solvents. The P spectra were referenced to 80 phosphoric acid or to the corresponding H spectra. High resolution mass spectra were obtained with a Jeol JMS LCmate mass spectrometer. Elemental analyses were determined by Galbraith Laboratories Inc.

To a solution of Boc Dap 6 0.49 g 1.71 mmol in dry DMF 3 mL that was stirring at 20 C. was added 1 hydroxybenzotriazole HOBT 0.37 g 2.74 mmol . Diisopropylethylamine DIEA 0.95 mL 5.48 mmol was added followed by N 3 dimethylaminopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride EDCI and the reaction mixture was stirred for 10 min before the addition of tyramine 0.28 g 2.05 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 20 C. for 16 h before termination of reaction by addition of saturated NaHCOsolution 5 mL and extraction with EtOAc 4 5 mL . The combined organic extract was washed with brine 20 mL and dried. Removal of solvent yielded a yellow oil 0.89 g that was fractionated by column chromatography eluent 2.5 6.0 CHOH in CHCl to provide 7a as a colorless oil 0.57 g 82 that crystallized from 1 1 CHCl hexane mp 163 164 C. 30.4 c 1.9 CHCl IR neat 3305 2975 2935 1650 1515 1168 755 cm H NMR CDOD 300 MHz 6.92 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.57 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 3.55 br m 1H 3.49 3.33 m 3H 3.29 s 3H 3.26 3.19 m 2H 3.19 3.03 m 2H 2.70 2.53 m 2H 2.11 m 1H 1.81 1.70 m 2H 1.61 1.50 m 2H 1.40 br s 9H 1.05 d J 6.3 Hz 3H C NMR CDCl 100.5 MHz two conformers observed 174.7 174.1 155.5 155.3 154.8 154.4 129.5 129.3 115.5 115.4 83.7 82.0 80.1 79.5 60.6 59.1 58.6 46.9 46.5 44.2 43.8 40.9 40.7 34.3 28.5 28.4 25.7 25.1 24.4 24.0 14.3 14.0 HRMS FAB m z 407.2565 M H calcd for CHNO 407.2546 .

Bromotrimethylsilane 0.46 mL 3.5 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 7a 0.57 g 1.4 mmol in dry CHClat 20 C. and stirring was continued for 18 h. Water 5 mL was added and the mixture was stirred vigorously for 30 min. The aqueous layer was removed and the organic phase was extracted again with HO 5 mL . Freeze drying of the combined aqueous phase provided the hydrobromide salt 7b as a colorless solid 0.54 g 99 which was used without further purification. A sample was crystallized from CHCl hexane mp 79 81 C. IR neat 3275 2980 1640 1515 1235 830 cm H NMR CDOD 300 MHz 6.95 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.60 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 3.47 m 1H 3.41 s 3H 3.25 3.02 m 5H 2.72 2.62 m 2H 2.33 m 1H 1.88 1.76 m 2H 1.72 1.64 m 2H 1.13 d J 7.2 Hz 3H C NMR CDOD 125.5 MHz 175.6 157.0 131.0 130.8 116.2 81.6 62.9 61.8 46.5 45.5 41.3 35.2 24.1 23.9 15.5 HRMS APCI m z 307.2026 M HBr H calcd for CHNO 307.2022 .

To a solution of 8 0.78 g 1.43 mmol that was stirring in dry DMF 2 mL at 20 C. was added HOBT 0.31 g 2.29 mmol . Next was added DIEA 0.96 mL 5.50 mmol followed by EDCI 0.44 g 2.29 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred for 15 min before the addition of a solution of 7b 0.50 g 1.30 mmol in DMF 4 mL . The mixture was stirred at 20 C. for 6 h and then reaction was terminated by addition of saturated NaHCOsolution 10 mL followed by extraction of the mixture with EtOAc 4 10 mL . The combined organic extract was washed with brine 50 mL and dried. Removal of solvent yielded a viscous brown oil 0.83 g that was fractionated by column chromatography eluent 5 10 MeOH in CHCl to provide 9 as a viscous colorless oil 0.61 g 65 44.0 c 2.2 CHCl IR neat 3295 2965 1620 1515 1100 755 cm H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 7.25 m 1H 7.05 7.01 m 4H 6.68 t J 8.5 Hz 4H 4.74 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 4.71 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 4.63 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 4.15 m 1H 4.07 m 1H 3.90 3.83 m 2H 3.78 m 1H 3.68 m 1H 3.57 m 6H 3.40 3.32 m 2H 3.38 s 3H 3.36 s 3H 3.29 s 6H 3.26 s 3H 3.13 s 3H 2.81 2.68 m 4H 2.65 2.62 m 2H 2.48 d J 6.6 Hz 2H 2.31 s 6H 2.29 s 6H 2.27 2.19 m 2H 2.08 1.86 m 10H 1.78 1.63 m 4H 1.44 1.35 m 2H 1.16 t J 7.1 Hz 6H 1.05 0.95 m 28H 0.90 0.84 m 12H C NMR CDOD 100.5 MHz 176.5 176.4 175.3 173.3 173.2 171.9 157.0 156.9 136.5 131.2 130.9 130.8 130.7 116.3 116.2 87.2 83.6 79.8 76.0 75.8 62.1 61.4 61.0 60.8 58.6 58.3 57.8 56.2 56.0 45.9 45.7 42.5 42.4 41.8 41.4 38.2 35.3 33.8 33.1 31.8 31.7 28.8 27.0 26.8 25.8 24.5 20.2 20.2 19.9 19.5 19.3 16.3 16.0 15.8 15.1 10.9 10.8 HRMS FAB m z 718.5084 M H calcd for CHNO 718.5119 .

To a solution of 9 0.51 g 0.70 mmol in dry CHCN 4 mL at 15 C. ice salt was added carbon tetrachloride 0.34 mL 1.02 mmol followed by DIEA 0.26 mL 1.50 mmol and 4 dimethylaminopyridine 9 mg 0.07 mmol . Dibenzylphosphite 0.23 mL 1.02 mmol was next added over a 20 min period to the mixture the temperature being maintained between 15 and 18 C. After addition the mixture was cooled to 20 C. and then allowed to warm to 5 C. over 90 min and reaction was terminated by addition of saturated NaHCOsolution 10 mL . The mixture was extracted with EtOAc 3 10 mL and the combined organic extract was washed with brine 50 mL and dried. Removal of solvent yielded a viscous pale yellow oil 0.60 g that was fractionated by column chromatography eluent 5 10 MeOH in CHCl to provide 10a as a colorless oil 0.34 g 49 IR neat 3305 2965 1620 1455 1215 1015 955 cm H NMR CDOD 500 MHz 7.36 7.31 m 20H 7.21 d J 6.6 Hz 2H 7.20 d J 6.6 Hz 2H 7.07 d J 6.6 Hz 2H 7.03 d J 6.6 Hz 2H 5.13 5.10 m 8H 4.81 4.71 m 2H 4.71 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 4.62 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 4.14 m 1H 4.06 m 1H 3.91 3.86 m 2H 3.80 m 1H 3.69 m 1H 3.56 3.47 m 4H 3.43 3.32 m 2H 3.38 s 3H 3.36 s 3H 3.28 s 6H 3.26 s 3H 3.11 s 3H 2.86 2.77 m 4H 2.65 2.61 m 3H 2.51 m 1H 2.46 d J 6.5 Hz 2H 2.30 s 6H 2.29 s 6H 2.28 2.18 m 2H 2.08 1.86 m 9H 1.76 1.64 m 5H 1.43 1.36 m 2H 1.16 d J 7.5 Hz 3H 1.15 d J 7.5 Hz 3H 1.02 0.92 m 28H 0.87 0.81 m 12H C NMR CDOD 125.5 MHz 175.2 175.1 171.9 170.6 157.0 149.0 d J 7.0 Hz 148.9 d J 7.0 Hz 136.6 136.4 129.9 129.8 128.5 128.3 127.9 d J 2.6 Hz 119.8 d J 4.4 Hz 119.6 d J 4.4 Hz 85.7 82.2 78.5 78.4 78.4 74.5 74.4 70.1 70.1 60.7 60.0 59.6 57.3 56.9 54.8 54.6 46.7 44.5 44.3 41.1 41.1 40.0 39.7 36.8 35.6 34.1 32.3 32.2 31.7 30.4 30.3 27.4 25.7 25.5 24.4 d J 3.6 Hz 23.1 18.8 d J 4.4 Hz 18.5 18.2 18.0 14.9 14.6 14.5 13.7 9.5 P NMR CDOD 202.5 MHz 6.51 6.54 HRMS FAB m z 978.5811 M H calcd for CHNOP 978.5721 .

To a solution of dibenzyl phosphate 10a 38 mg 0.04 mmol in MeOH 5 mL was added palladium on activated carbon 10 wt Pd 10 mg and hydrogen gas balloon was bubbled through the suspension for 1 h. The mixture was filtered through a plug of Celite and the filter was washed with MeOH 2 5 mL . Removal of solvent from the filtrate yielded the free phosphoric acid 10b as a glassy solid 32 mg quantitative mp 168 170 C. IR neat 3400 2970 1635 1460 1095 910 cm H NMR CDOD 500 MHz 7.20 7.12 m 8H 4.77 4.71 m 2H 4.67 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 4.62 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 4.11 m 1H 4.05 m 1H 3.93 3.89 m 2H 3.73 3.68 m 2H 3.61 3.48 m 4H 3.44 3.33 m 2H 3.41 s 3H 3.37 s 3H 3.29 s 6H 3.28 s 3H 3.15 s 3H 2.90 s 6H 2.79 2.73 m 4H 2.66 2.49 m 4H 2.42 2.26 m 4H 2.08 1.64 m 14H 1.46 1.38 m 2H 1.23 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.17 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.07 1.00 m 20H 0.97 0.84 m 20H P NMR CDOD 202.5 MHz 4.11.

Ion exchange chromatography of free acid 10b 32 mg with aqueous NaOH led to 3b as a colorless solid 24 mg 71 mp 170 171 C. IR neat 3305 2965 1625 1510 1105 990 cm H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 7.17 7.15 m 4H 7.09 d J 8.0 Hz 4H 4.78 4.72 m 2H 4.72 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 4.64 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 4.12 m 1H 4.07 m 1H 3.98 3.94 m 2H 3.91 dd J 9.1 2.3 Hz 2H 3.70 m 1H 3.59 m 1H 3.51 3.41 m 4H 3.39 s 3H 3.37 s 3H 3.36 3.32 m 2H 3.30 s 6H 3.27 s 3H 3.14 s 3H 2.81 2.70 m 4H 2.65 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 2.63 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 2.49 d J 6.4 Hz 2H 2.31 s 6H 2.29 s 6H 2.29 2.22 m 2H 2.08 1.87 m 9H 1.81 1.68 m 5H 1.43 1.36 m 2H 1.17 t J 5.3 Hz 6H 1.03 0.95 m 28H 0.85 q J 7.2 Hz 12H P NMR CDOD 162.0 MHz 3.42.

Ion exchange chromatography of sodium salt 3b 12 mg 0.014 mmol with aqueous LiOH led to 3a as a colorless solid 11 mg 96 mp 263 C. dec IR neat 3315 2965 1630 1105 1005 920 cm H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 7.20 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.18 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.04 d J 8.0 Hz 4H 4.74 4.70 m 2H 4.72 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 4.64 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 4.14 4.00 m 4H 3.95 m 1H 3.91 dd J 9.0 2.2 Hz 1H 3.71 m 1H 3.58 m 1H 3.52 3.34 m 6H 3.39 s 3H 3.38 s 3H 3.30 s 6H 3.27 s 6H 3.13 s 3H 2.75 2.68 m 4H 2.64 d J 4.8 Hz 1H 2.63 d J 4.8 Hz 1H 2.51 d J 6.4 Hz 2H 2.30 s 6H 2.29 s 6H 2.27 2.23 m 2H 2.07 1.94 m 9H 1.82 1.71 m 5H 1.45 1.37 m 2H 1.18 t J 6.2 Hz 6H 1.03 0.95 m 28H 0.85 q J 6.9 Hz 12H P NMR CDOD 162.0 MHz 0.58.

Ion exchange chromatography of acid 10b with aqueous KOH led to 3c as a colorless solid 4 mg 64 mp 198 C. IR neat 3230 2965 1620 1100 980 885 cm H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 7.21 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.19 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.04 d J 8.2 Hz 4H 4.75 4.72 m 2H 4.72 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 4.64 d J 6.6 Hz 1H 4.14 4.01 m 4H 3.95 m 1H 3.91 dd J 8.8 2.4 Hz 1H 3.71 m 1H 3.58 m 1H 3.52 3.35 m 6H 3.39 s 3H 3.38 s 3H 3.30 s 6H 3.26 s 3H 3.13 s 3H 2.75 2.68 m 4H 2.64 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 2.63 d J 9.2 Hz 1H 2.49 d J 5.6 Hz 2H 2.30 s 6H 2.29 s 6H 2.27 2.23 m 2H 2.07 1.94 m 9H 1.83 1.72 m 5H 1.45 1.37 m 2H 1.18 t J 6.2 Hz 6H 1.03 0.95 m 28H 0.84 q J 6.9 Hz 12H P NMR CDOD 162.0 MHz 0.42.

Ion exchange chromatography of potassium salt 3c with aqueous morpholine led to 3d as a colorless solid mp 148 150 C. IR neat 3295 2965 1620 1455 1105 880 cm H NMR CDOD 500 MHz 7.18 7.11 m 8H 4.82 4.74 m 2H 4.71 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 4.65 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 4.13 m 1H 4.07 m 1H 3.97 m 1H 3.91 dd J 9.3 2.3 Hz 1H 3.80 br s 16H 3.71 m 1H 3.60 m 1H 3.52 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 3.49 3.43 m 3H 3.40 s 3H 3.39 s 3H 3.37 3.34 m 2H 3.31 s 6H 3.28 s 3H 3.15 s 3H 3.06 br s 16H 2.82 m 1H 2.77 q J 7.2 Hz 4H 2.69 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 2.67 m 1H 2.54 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 2.50 d J 6.0 Hz 2H 2.42 s 6H 2.34 s 6H 2.32 2.14 m 2H 2.13 1.88 m 9H 1.81 1.71 m 5H 1.46 1.38 m 2H 1.20 d J 6.5 Hz 3H 1.18 d J 7.5 Hz 3H 1.04 0.95 m 28H 0.91 0.87 m 12H P NMR CDOD 162.0 MHz 3.43.

The amine or amino acid 25.0 mol was added to a stirred solution of acid 10b 10 mg 12.5 mol in either MeOH 300 L or deionized HO for 3 h and the mixture was stirred for 15 h. Removal of solvent yielded the desired salt.

colorless solid mp 118 120 C. H NMR CDOD 500 MHz 8.67 d J 4.8 Hz 4H 7.93 d J 9.3 Hz 4H 7.72 d J 4.8 Hz 4H 7.43 d J 2.3 Hz 4H 7.40 dd J 9.3 2.3 Hz 4H 7.17 t J 7.3 Hz 4H 7.03 d J 7.3 Hz 4H 5.93 s 4H 5.73 m 4H 5.05 d J 17.5 Hz 4H 4.95 d J 11 Hz 4H 4.82 4.71 m 2H 4.72 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 4.65 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 4.12 m 1H 4.07 m 1H 3.98 s 12H 3.91 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 3.89 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 3.71 3.65 m 2H 3.56 m 1H 3.50 d J 10.0 Hz 1H 3.45 3.23 m 12H 3.39 s 3H 3.38 s 3H 3.30 s 3H 3.29 s 3H 3.27 s 3H 3.14 s 3H 3.00 2.92 m 8H 2.71 2.65 m 6H 2.56 2.48 m 8H 2.34 s 6H 2.31 s 6H 2.30 2.21 m 2H 2.08 1.90 m 24H 1.78 1.71 m 10H 1.45 1.40 m 6H 1.17 t J 7.0 Hz 6H 1.04 0.95 m 28H 0.98 0.80 m 12H P NMR CDOD 162.0 MHz 1.82.

colorless solid mp 122 123 C. H NMR DO 500 MHz 7.21 7.12 m 1H 4.73 4.64 m 4H 4.17 m 1H 4.11 m 1H 3.92 3.86 m 2H 3.74 3.62 m 2H 3.67 s 24H 3.59 3.38 m 6H 3.44 s 3H 3.42 s 3H 3.33 s 3H 3.33 s 3H 3.26 s 3H 3.18 s 3H 3.12 d J 8.5 Hz 3H 3.02 d J 9.5 Hz 1H 2.87 2.75 m 2H 2.67 2.62 m 2H 2.58 2.54 m 2H 2.52 s 6H 2.45 s 6H 2.36 2.27 m 2H 2.22 2.09 m 2H 2.08 2.01 m 2H 1.99 1.72 m 9H 1.68 1.61 m 1H 1.39 1.30 m 2H 1.20 d J 6.5 Hz 3H 1.16 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.05 0.97 m 28H 0.88 0.84 m 12H P NMR CDOD 162.0 MHz 0.01.

colorless solid mp 158 C. dec H NMR DO 500 MHz 7.26 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 7.23 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 7.14 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 7.09 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 4.75 d J 9.5 Hz 1H 4.73 4.68 m 2H 4.66 d J 9.5 Hz 1H 4.18 m 1H 4.11 m 1H 4.01 3.93 m 10H 3.86 3.83 m 6H 3.79 t J 5.8 Hz 2H 3.74 3.68 m 2H 3.62 3.51 m 4H 3.47 3.36 m 4H 3.44 s 3H 3.39 s 3H 3.33 s 3H 3.32 s 3H 3.24 s 3H 3.18 s 3H 2.97 s 6H 2.95 s 6H 2.92 2.79 m 4H 2.67 2.44 m 6H 2.33 m 1H 2.24 m 1H 2.12 2.02 m 2H 1.97 1.66 m 9H 1.51 m 1H 1.38 1.32 m 2H 1.20 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.14 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.05 0.95 m 30H 0.92 0.82 m 10H P NMR CDOD 162.0 MHz 4.07.

colorless solid mp 157 158 C. dec IR neat 3295 2965 1625 1360 1270 1095 cm H NMR DO 500 MHz 7.21 d J 7.8 Hz 2H 7.18 d J 7.8 Hz 2H 7.10 d J 7.8 Hz 2H 7.05 d J 7.8 Hz 2H 4.71 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 4.70 4.64 m 2H 4.62 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 4.14 m 1H 4.06 m 1H 3.81 3.72 m 4H 3.74 t J 6.5 Hz 4H 3.69 3.63 m 2H 3.59 3.45 m 4H 3.43 3.33 m 2H 3.40 s 3H 3.35 s 3H 3.30 t J 6.5 Hz 8H 3.29 s 3H 3.28 s 3H 3.20 s 3H 3.14 s 3H 2.93 s 6H 2.90 s 6H 2.88 2.75 m 4H 2.63 2.48 m 5H 2.44 2.39 m 1H 2.29 m 1H 2.20 m 1H 2.08 1.97 m 2H 1.95 1.61 m 25H 1.47 m 1H 1.34 1.27 m 2H 1.16 d J 6.5 Hz 3H 1.10 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.01 0.96 m 18H 0.93 0.90 m 12H 0.86 0.81 m 10H P NMR CDOD 162.0 MHz 3.56.

To a solution of Boc Dap 6 0.172 g 0.6 mmol in CHCl 3 mL was added 2 aminoquinoline 82.8 mg 0.57 mmol and the mixture was stirred and cooled to 0 C. under argon. Triethylamine TEA 0.3 mL 2.1 mmol and diethylcyanophosphonate DEPC 0.2 mL 1.2 mmol were added and the resultant yellow solution was allowed to warm to room temperature rt and was stirred under argon for 6 h. Removal of solvent yielded a dark orange brown residue that was fractioned under pressure on silica gel eluent hexane acetone 7 2 to 2 3 to give the product as a colorless solid 90.8 mg 0.22 mmol 36.6 based on recovery of starting material H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.43 1H dd J 8.7 1.5 Hz 8.16 1H d J 8.7 Hz 7.83 1H d J 8.7 Hz 7.72 1H d J 8.4 Hz 7.66 1H t J 7.5 Hz 7.44 1H t J 7.5 Hz 4.05 3.92 2H m NCH OCH 3.53 3H s OCH 3.44 2H br d J 13 Hz NCH 2.60 2.80 1H m CHCH 1.74 1.98 4H m 2 CH 1.52 9H s C CH 1.45 3H d J 9.3 Hz CHCH MS APCI m z 414.2373 M H calcd for CHNO 414.2393 .

To a solution of N Boc Dap 2 AQ 11 68.0 mg 0.16 mmol in CHCl 4 mL that was stirring at 0 C. under argon was added trifluoroacetic acid TFA 2 mL and stirring was continued for 2 h with warming to rt. The solvent was removed under vacuum toluene being used to form an azeotrope with the remaining TFA. The residue a yellow oil was allowed to stand under diethyl ether for 1 h. Removal of the ether left a yellowish oily solid to which hexane was added and removed under vacuum until a constant weight was reached 99.4 mg quantitative and this material was used immediately in the next reaction.

The Dap 2 AQ salt 12 and Dov Val Dil.TFA 8 87.0 mg 0.16 mmol were dissolved in CHCl 5 mL and the solution was stirred under argon and cooled to 0 C. Next TEA 0.12 mL 0.86 mmol and DEPC 0.035 mL 0.21 mmol were added and the mixture was stirred under argon for 7 h with warming to rt. Removal of solvent yielded a yellowish oil 310 mg that was separated on silica gel under pressure eluent hexane acetone 5 2 to 3 2 to give the product as a colorless glass powder when scratched 64 mg 0.09 mmol H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.43 1H dd J 8.7 1.5 Hz 8.14 1H d J 8.7 Hz 7.80 7.41 4H m 6.90 1H t J 9.3 Hz 6.73 1H d J 9.0 Hz 4.86 1H m 4.75 1H m 4.26 1H m 4.14 1H m 4.04 1H m 3.51 and 3.44 3H s 3.35 and 3.32 3H s 3.38 3.19 2H m 3.02 3H s 2.42 3H m 2.23 6H s 2.23 1H m 2.08 1.98 5H m 1.95 1.74 1H m 1.43 1.33 2H m 0.80 1.06 22H m MS APCI m z 725.4997 M H calcd for CHNO 725.4966 .

To a stirring solution of Boc Dap 6 87.2 mg 0.3 mmol in DMF 2 mL and pyridine 0.1 mL was added BocO 0.183 g 0.84 mmol . After 10 min 6 aminoquinoline 6 AQ 50.4 mg 0.35 mmol was added to the solution and stirring was continued for 64 h at which time starting material was still present. Solvent was removed from the mixture and the residue was fractionated by column chromatography in hexane acetone 5 1 to 2 1 gradient . The first fractions to elute contained Boc 6 AQ 35 mg H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.79 1H dd J 4.5 1.5 Hz 8.01 8.12 3H m 7.48 1H dd J 9 2.7 Hz 7.36 1H dd J 7.1 4.2 Hz 7.03 1H br s 1.55 9H s .

Following the elution of the remaining Boc Dap 6 compound 14 29.7 mg 0.07 mmol 23 yield or 28 based on 14.9 mg recovery of 6 AQ was collected H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.82 2H m 8.45 1H br s 8.11 1H d J 8.1 Hz 8.04 1H d J 9.3 Hz 7.72 1H br 7.37 1H dd J 8.4 4.2 Hz 4.15 3.90 2H m NCH OCH 3.55 3H s OCH 3.43 m 1H 3.27 m 1H 2.72 1H m 2.06 1.76 4H m 1.50 9H s 1.39 3H m MS APCI m z 414.2408 M H calcd for CHNO 414.2393 .

Intermediate acid fluoride 16 was first prepared by successive addition of pyridine 0.05 mL and cyanuric fluoride 15 0.15 mL 1.75 mmol to a solution of Boc Dap 6 76.3 mg 0.27 mmol that was stirring under argon at 0 C. with continued stirring for 20 h and warming to rt. Next CHCl 10 mL and ice were added followed by cold HO. The organic phase was removed and the aqueous layer was further extracted with CHCl. The combined organic extract was washed with cold HO and dried to give a dark orange oily solid 65.6 mg that by tlc comprised product 16 and a trace of Boc Dap 6 . Without further purification the crude product was dissolved in CHCland was treated with pyridine 0.1 mL followed by 6 AQ 34.8 mg 0.24 mmol . The mixture was stirred for 21 h and was then extracted with CHCl 10 mL . The solution was washed with 10 citric acid solution followed by HO. Drying over NaSOand removal of solvent yielded a pale brown oil 52.8 mg that was separated by column chromatography eluent toluene acetone 2 1 to give product 14 30.3 mg 0.07 mmol 26 .

To a solution of N Boc Dap 6 AQ 14 49.3 mg 0.12 mmol in CHCl 2 mL that was stirring at 0 C. under argon was added trifluoroacetic acid TFA 2 mL . Stirring was continued for 3 h with warming to rt. The solvent was removed under vacuum toluene being used to form an azeotrope with the remaining TFA to give a green tinged oily solid 17 quantitative that was used immediately in the next reaction.

Dap 6 AQ salt 17 0.12 mmol and Dov Val Dil.TFA 8 70.0 mg 0.13 mmol were dissolved in CHCl 2 mL and the solution was stirred under argon and cooled to 0 C. Next were added TEA 0.11 mL 0.79 mmol and DEPC 0.03 mL 0.18 mmol and the mixture was stirred under argon for 18 h with warming to rt. Removal of solvent and separation on silica gel under pressure eluent hexane acetone 5 2 to 2 3 gave the crude product 5 48.6 mg of which a 19.1 mg sample was further purified by column chromatography in CHCl MeOH 19 1 to give auristatin 6 AQ 5 as a pale yellow glassy oil powder when scratched H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 9.04 1H br s 8.81 1H br d J 3 Hz 8.47 1H s 8.11 1H d J 8.4 Hz 8.02 1H d J 9.3 Hz 7.76 1H br d J 8.7 Hz 7.36 1H dd J 8.4 3.8 Hz 6.96 1H br 4.79 2H m 4.30 4.07 3H m 3.51 3H s 3.50 3.26 2H m 3.35 3H s 3.05 s 3H 2.71 1H m 2.54 2.42 2H m 2.32 2.22 1H m 2.28 6H s 2.12 2.05 2H m 1.82 2H m 1.42 1.26 5H m 1.08 0.80 21H m MS APCI m z 725.4907 M H calcd for CHNO 725.4966 .

The synthesis of 3 was carried out as shown in Scheme 1. Reaction of the amino acid Boc Dap 6 with tyramine in the presence of 1 3 dimethylaminopropyl 3 ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride EDCl and 1 hydroxybenzotriazole HOBT gave the protected amide 7a. Removal of the Boc group with bromotrimethylsilane TMSBr yielded the hydrobromide salt 7b which was coupled with Dov Val Dil.TFA 8 in the presence of EDCI and HOBT to give the parent auristatin tyramide 9 . The doubling of signals in the H and C NMR spectra of 9 indicated the presence of two isomers a pattern similar to that of dolastatin 10 and due to conformational isomers arising from cis trans isomerism at the Dil Dap bond.

Formation of phosphate diester 10a was achieved via in situ generation of dibenzyl chlorophosphate from reaction of dibenzyl phosphite and carbon tetrachloride and was followed by removal of the benzyl ester groups by hydrogenolysis to provide the free phosphoric acid 10b. The pure 10b was quite unstable but could be stored for short periods as a methanolic solution 

A similar convergent synthesis was planned for the preparation of the auristatin aminoquinoline modifications 4 5 that is formation of the Dap aminoquinoline unit followed by condensation with tripeptide 8. As shown in Scheme 2 Boc Dap 6 and 2 aminoquinoline 2 AQ were condensed to give Boc Dap 2 AQ 11 diethylcyanophosphonate DEPC being used as coupling reagent followed by deprotection to give the amine TFA salt 12 . Coupling of 12 and 8 with use of DEPC gave the desired auristatin 2 AQ 4 . The doubling of signals in the H NMR spectrum of 4 because of conformational changes was also noted.

Preparation of auristatins from other aminoquinoline isomers proved more difficult. First the coupling of 5 aminoquinoline 5 AQ with compound 6 was attempted but use of DEPC failed to give the desired product. The coupling agent PyBroP was next used under standard conditions but only starting material 6 and 5 AQ was detected after 100 h. The activity of the aminoquinolines varies with the position of the amino group and they are in general poor nucleophiles. Therefore we considered a route involving an activated intermediate preformed from the amino acid. Pozdnevused di tert butyl dicarbonate Boc anhydride BocO in the presence of pyridine to form activated esters of a number of protected amino acid derivatives which were then condensed successfully with 6 aminoquinoline 6 AQ . Use of this method to couple 5 AQ and compound 6 failed and was not further pursued and the condensation of 6 aminoquinoline 6 AQ with 6 via mixed anhydride 13 Scheme 3 was next attempted.

A mixture of BocO and 6 in pyridine and dimethylformamide DMF was allowed to stir for 10 min and 6 AQ was then added.After isolation of products the reaction was found to have given the desired Boc Dap 6 AQ 14 along with Boc 6 AQ at least half of the 6 AQ was used in formation of this product . When 6 and BocO were allowed to stir in base for an hour so that formation of ester 13 could go to completion with evolution of CO before addition of 6 AQ formation of Boc 6 AQ was avoided and in isolation of the desired product a citric acid wash was found useful for removal of unreacted aminoquinoline. However the yield of product was still quite low at 25 and another method was sought.

Among the most reactive of the common activated intermediates are the amino acid fluorides which have been shown to be very efficient reagents for peptide bond formation.With a sample of Boc Dap 6 AQ 14 in hand for comparison the condensation of the acid fluoride of 6 with 6 AQ was next attempted Scheme 4 . Reaction of cyanuric fluoride 15 with Boc Dap 6 to give Boc Dap C O F 16 was carried out under mild conditions and the crude product was used immediately in a condensation reaction with 6 AQ in the presence of pyridine. The reaction did not go to completion there was no detectable reduction in the amounts of unreacted compounds from 6 h to 20 h later and the desired Boc Dap 6 AQ 14 was isolated in 26 yield. Compound 14 was then treated with TFA to give the Dap 6 AQ.TFA salt 17 which was condensed with Dov Val Dil.TFA 8 to give auristatin 6 AQ 5 .

In a repeat of the synthesis of acid fluoride 16 diisopropylethylamine DIEA was used as base and purification of 16 was carried out on silica gel before condensation with 6 AQ in the presence of DIEA to give Boc Dap 6 AQ 14 . Reaction was slow and at 44 h no change was apparent compared to the mixture at 32 h. The colorless oil that was isolated contained both product 14 and unreacted 16 by tlc . According to the literature the reaction of Fmoc amino acid fluorides with amines is often very slow and is not dependent on base the presence of base can increase the reaction rate but lack of it can result in a cleaner reaction . Of the two methods to synthesize Boc Dap 6 AQ 5 use of BocO to form active intermediate 13 led consistently to a yield of about 24 whereas the yield from the Boc Dap C O F 16 method varied from 26 using pyridine to 6.6 using DIEA and purifying the intermediate .

Compounds 3b 3c 4 5 and 9 were evaluated against the murine P388 lymphocytic leukemia cell line and showed exceptional activity auristatins 3b 4 and 5 were also tested against a minipanel of human cancer cell lines in our laboratories with similarly strong activity evident Table 3 especially from compounds 3b and 5. These in vitro data are quite comparable to those of dolastatin 10 1 and auristatin PE 2a each of which had GIvalues of 10 10 g mL 10 10nM against a similar minipanel of human cell lines.

As shown in Table 2 auristatin TP as sodium phosphate 3b Gl10 10 g mL auristatin 2 AQ 4 Gl10 10 g mL and auristatin 6 AQ 5 Gl10 g mL exhibited superior cancer cell growth inhibitory properties.

While particular materials formulations operational sequences process parameters and end products have been set forth to describe and exemplify this invention they are not intended to be limiting. Rather it should be noted by those ordinarily skilled in the art that the written disclosures are exemplary only and that various other alternatives adaptations and modifications may be made within the scope of the present invention. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to the specific embodiments illustrated herein but is limited only by the following claims.

