---

title: Mismatch verification device and methods thereof
abstract: A method can include identifying a device design comprising first and second instantiations of a device, identifying a layer of the device design, identifying a first region of the device design for the first instantiation based on the layer of the first instantiation, and a second region of the device design for the second instantiation based on the layer of the second instantiation. identifying a first compare layer of the device design that comprises a plurality of first compare features including a first compared feature within the first region and a second compared feature within the second region, determining a difference between the first compared feature and the second compared feature, and determining if the difference meets a tolerance to determine if the first instantiation matches the second instantiation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08856705&OS=08856705&RS=08856705
owner: Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
number: 08856705
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120508
---
The present application is related to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 596 337 entitled DEVICE MATCHING TOOL AND METHODS THEREOF filed on Aug. 28 2012 the entirety of which is herein incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to integrated circuits and more particularly to design tools for integrated circuits.

Because of their complexity integrated circuits such as systems on a chip SOCs are typically designed using automated design tools such as a computer aided design CAD system. The CAD system can include automated processes to implement verify and improve performance reliability and manufacturability of the device design. For example to verify reliability of the device design the CAD system simulates the behavior of the device based on input stimuli and determines whether physical attributes of the device conform to design rule specifications.

In certain instances it can be desirable for devices of a same type to exhibit performance characteristics that are closely matched. Traditionally this has been accomplished by ensuring that the placement and routing of such devices themselves are the same thus improving the performance similarity of the signal processing performed by each of the matched devices. For example sense amplifiers differential pairs operational amplifiers current mirrors and other circuits can be designed to have similar electrical performance characteristics to other devices of the same type by matching their placement and routing to each other. However even when the mask layer shapes that make up the devices are the same and the matched devices are both compliant with a common set of design rules the devices may operate sufficiently differently from each other to cause unacceptable mismatches in the electrical performance of the devices for an intended application. Accordingly there is a need for techniques to determine whether the extent of mismatch in circuits or devices that are expected to perform similarly to each other is acceptable.

In accordance with a specific embodiment of the present disclosure devices of an integrated circuit design that are expected to perform more similarly to each other than would otherwise be guaranteed by merely matching their respective layouts or by following device level design rules can be evaluated to determine if their performance is sufficiently matched for their intended purposes. In particular a selector module of an integrated circuit design system identifies regions of interest corresponding to a first instantiation and a second instantiation of a particular device type that are to be closely matched. A comparator module of the integrated circuit design system evaluates one or more desired characteristics within the identified regions of interest associated with the first and second instantiations to determine if the desired characteristic within each region of interest meets a desired level of similarity. If not the dissimilarity indicates a likelihood of mismatched performance.

The regions of interest identified by the selector module can be determined based on design features that can further be based on geometries of one or more mask layer features of the integrated circuit design that define the devices being matched. For example an active area that is adjacent to an instantiation of a device being matched but not part of the device can affect the performance of that instantiation by virtue of stresses that the adjacent active regions induce in the active region of the instantiation and more specifically by virtue of the stresses that they induce in the channel region of the instantiation. Thus variations in the shapes and locations of active regions adjacent to devices being matched can cause a performance mismatch between these instantiations. The sizes of the regions of interest identified by the selector module can be determined based on known process effects between particular features. For example a particular process which will be used to manufacture the integrated circuit having the devices being matched will have known stress characteristics associated with its active areas that will be used by engineers to determine the region of interest surrounding active regions of the devices being matched.

It will be appreciated therefore that the regions of interest can also be larger or smaller than the geometries of the mask layer features of the device depending upon the particular characteristic effect being analyzed. For example the region of interest that surrounds an active area of a device being matched can be much larger than the geometry of the active region in order to evaluate adjacent active regions. In an alternate example that determines whether or not there are significant differences in cross coupling effects between a transistor gate and overlaying metal layer the area of interest of a device can be coincident with the transistor gate layout to identify only a metal layer feature directly overlaying the gate.

Thus while the selector module determines regions of interest the comparator module determines whether differences within the regions of interest between the instantiations of the devices are acceptable differences for a particular characteristic e.g. features being matched. These differences can be determined between the regions of interest being matched by comparing a particular feature or set of features associated with the region of interest of one device with the same feature or set of features associated with the region of interest of the other device. The amount of feature variation determined by this comparison can be used to determine whether the electrical mismatch introduced by this feature is significant i.e. whether the feature needs modification.

Netlist provides a schematic description of the integrated circuit design and can be based on circuit and signal simulations performed on the integrated circuit design. For example illustrates a schematic depiction of a pair of devices and that are included in netlist . For ease of illustration the devices and are presumed to be inverters. However the concepts described herein are likely to be applied to devices of greater complexity that include additional transistors and active and passive components. For example the concepts described herein can be used to determine electrical performance variations between digital logic devices as well as between analog devices. Design layout stores a physical layout of the integrated circuit design. For example illustrates a device design layout of devices and as represented in design layout . Device design layout represents various mask features from a plurality of masks including active area features illustrated in masking shape gate dielectric gate features illustrated in masking shape first level interconnect metal features as illustrated in masking shape and second level interconnect metal features as illustrated in masking shape . Note that contacts between the active layers and conductive layers and between various conductive layers are not shown. Intermediate layout stores a modified version of design layout that includes various mask features added to support manufacturability of the semiconductor device. For example intermediate layout can result from performing design for manufacturing DFM modifications such as tiling or other post design processing on design layout . illustrates an intermediate layout mask of devices and as represented in intermediate layout that includes various tiling features which are active areas added around the active areas of devices and as represented in intermediate layout . Masking shape illustrates a representation of the active area mask after inclusion of the tiling features .

Production mask layout stores production level mask representations of the integrated circuit design that takes into account various fabrication process steps that are necessary to the fabrication of the integrated circuit design but that are transparent to designers of integrated circuit device designs and associated layout tools. For example production mask layout can include optical proximity correction OPC features as needed for various mask layers as well as additional production masks where the mask shapes are derived from Boolean combinations of source layout shapes for example implant and stressor masks. For example illustrates production level masks associated with active area masking shapes as represented in production mask layout . The production level masks include an isolation mask a p well mask and an n well mask . One skilled in the art will appreciate that production mask layout can include other OPC features than those illustrated such as serifs and anti serifs. Design model maps provide variations in the simulation and modeling of the design specific effects of the integrated circuit design on the instantiations of the devices to be matched and include mappings of the integrated circuit design for various effects as described further below.

Integrated circuit design system includes various application modules such as design tools and mismatch module which itself may be a design tool. The application modules are configured to manipulate and analyze the integrated circuit design information included in design repository to derive a desired representation of the integrated circuit design. During the design process design repository changes as a design progresses. For example based on simulations of the integrated circuit design a design repository can be altered so that the integrated circuit design complies with a specification. For example the netlist can be altered to add or remove devices or components of devices in order to meet desired timing requirements. Alternatively the design layout can be modified based upon post place and route simulations to address various timing issues. The changes to the integrated circuit design are reflected by corresponding changes to design repository that are evaluated by further simulation and testing.

Once the design process is complete the integrated circuit design is used to fabricate the integrated circuit. For example production mask layout can include a representation of the integrated circuit design that includes information relating to physical photomask features that can be provided to a mask fabrication facility to prepare masks to be provided to an integrated circuit fabrication facility. In one embodiment design tools and mismatch module include hardware modules software modules or a combination thereof. Each application module is executed as described herein to perform an associated design function. Integrated circuit design system can include additional application modules that are associated with other aspects of the design process. For example integrated circuit design system can include a layout verification module operable to identify and validate a correspondence between information included at netlist and physical information stored at design layout a timing analysis module to verify that a fabricated integrated circuit based on the integrated circuit design can operate at a desired speed and the like.

Design tools includes one or more application modules that are accessed to analyze and manipulate the attributes of the integrated circuit design including circuit and simulation tools a device library place and route P R tools post P R layout tools a layout extractor and process specific models . Circuit and simulation tools provide designers with an ability to simulate various aspects of the integrated circuit design including logical performance real time performance power consumption and the like. In particular circuit and simulation tools can operate on the files of design repository to model the integrated circuit design for various conditions that are known to exist in the fabricated integrated circuit for a particular process. For example a fabricated integrated circuit can exhibit varying performance characteristics based on the location a particular device relative to other devices features based on aging effects for the device based on temperature sensitivity effects and based on other effects. As such a device may be located in an area of the fabricated integrated circuit that has a temperature profile that can affect the electrical performance of the device. Further the power environment experienced by the integrated circuit can affect the device as can aging effects current resistance I R drop or current density. These and other process variables are simulated in circuit and simulation tools . illustrates examples of mappings of some of these effects including a first process model variation map a second process model variation map a third process model variation map and a fourth process model variation map wherein darker regions of the mapped effects represent a greater magnitude. For example one of the maps may represent a temperature gradient map wherein the darker regions represent areas of higher temperature relative to lighter areas. Another map may represent a dielectric thickness map wherein the darker regions represent areas of higher dielectric thickness relative to lighter areas.

Device library includes various predefined devices such as standard cells and parameterized cells that can be used by the designer to implement desired functions. For example a designer can choose to access device library to select a standard inverter operational amplifier phase locked loop another integrated circuit device or a combination thereof rather than to design each of these devices individually. P R tools operate to locate place devices from netlist at physical locations of the integrated circuit design and to provide interconnections route between the devices. Post P R layout tools operate to provide features for tiling DFM physical verification and other features. Subsequent to place and route layout extractor can be used to translate some or all of the representations of physical information stored at design repository into information representing physical characteristics of a particular device. For example layout extractor can determine for each device output of a device design an associated capacitance resistance and the like. Similarly layout extractor can determine various characteristics associated with individual interconnects. Layout extractor may include a commercially available extractor a proprietary extractor or a combination thereof.

Simulation tools can provide capacitance and resistance information in order to provide a more accurate timing simulation of a device design based upon the actual placement of devices and interconnect characteristics. With respect to comparing performance of devices that are to have matched performance extraction tools can extract information associated with each instance of the device such as capacitance and resistance information as well as information proximate thereto such as active area or density information and other routing information as desired. With respect to a particular implementation of the present disclosure layout extractor can extract layout information associated with each instantiation of a device to be matched. Should instantiations have different orientations the layout extractor can compensate for the orientation differences by rotating in order to facilitate comparisons of features proximate to each instantiation as needed.

Process specific models provide designers with an ability to simulate devices based upon specific aspects of the integrated circuit fabrication process that will be used to manufacture final devices. In particular process specific models can be used in conjunction with the files of design repository to model the integrated circuit design for various conditions that are known to exist with respect to a particular manufacturing process. For example a fabricated device can be expected to exhibit a particular set of performance characteristics based on the gate geometries used with respect to a particular manufacturing process. In addition it will be appreciated that the actual manufacturing process used to implement the integrated circuit can affect other performance characteristics of a device. Thus the process specific models are used to simulate a target process.

Mismatch module is an application module operable to determine whether the electrical performance of a first instantiation of a device of the integrated circuit design matches the electrical performance of a second instantiation of a device of the same type. Hereinafter the description of mismatch module will be with reference to instantiations of devices. Mismatch module includes a selector a comparator and a mismatch lookup table . In a particular embodiment mismatch module is included in design repository in design tools or a combination thereof. In another embodiment mismatch module is derived from information included in design repository in design tools or a combination thereof.

Selector selects regions of interest for the device instantiations to be matched. For each instantiation these regions of interest can include a portion of the device all of the device regions proximate the device and the like. In a particular embodiment selector selects the regions of interest based on a design feature of the device instantiations being matched. A particular design feature of an instantiation such as an active area or a channel region can be specific to one or more mask layers of the integrated circuit design.

Comparator compares a specified feature referred to as a critical feature or a compare feature within the regions of interest for each of the devices to be matched to determine if electrical performance for each device is matched with the other. In a particular embodiment the critical features within a region of interest are represented by polygons and the comparator performs a logical exclusive OR XOR between the regions of interest to determine the differences between the polygons of respective instantiations and whether these differences are within a critical feature tolerance. If the devices are matched as defined by differences between the critical features being less than the critical feature tolerance a match is indicated and further design work on the devices may not be necessary. If the devices are not matched as defined by differences between the critical features exceeding the critical feature tolerance then a mismatch is indicated and further design work may be performed to modify design repository to obtain a better match between the devices. For example features proximate to one or more instantiation can be moved. The operation of mismatch module can be utilized at any stage of the design process. As such devices can be matched in netlist design layout intermediate layout and production mask layout . Note that while features of mask layers are described herein comparator can also make comparisons based upon simulations of the integrated circuit design where the comparisons are based upon predicted values for the features. For example comparator can compare predicted device widths predicted dielectric thicknesses or other predicted features as needed or desired.

Design model maps provide variations in the simulation and modeling of the design specific effects of the integrated circuit design on the instantiations of the devices to be matched and include mappings of the integrated circuit design for various effects as described above with respect to . In a particular embodiment comparator determines if variations in the values of the mappings between instantiations are within critical feature tolerances. In another embodiment comparator determines if the range of values across each instantiation hereinafter described as delta ranges are within a critical feature tolerance. For example where the electrical performance matching of a pair of devices is affected by a design specific effect design model maps can supply a permitted variation between each device of the pair of devices or can supply a permitted delta range across each device. In another embodiment the regions of interest are provided by selector and comparator to determine if the variations and delta ranges are within the permitted variations and permitted delta ranges provided by design model maps . The permitted variation between each instantiation of the devices to be matched or the permitted delta range across each instantiation is supplied by mismatch lookup table . For example given a mapping of the expected temperature across an integrated circuit design the value of the temperature may be deemed to be important to the matching of the performance of a pair of devices and so a permitted variation between the expected temperatures for each device can be specified. If the difference in the expected temperature between the devices is greater than the permitted variation the expected match between the devices may be poor. In other words the permitted variation is a way to measure whether each device is on a same or similar contour of the associated design model map . Further the delta range of temperatures experienced by each device of a pair of devices to be matched may be deemed to be important to the matching of the devices and so a permitted delta range of the expected temperatures for each device can be specified. If the temperature difference across each device is greater than the permitted delta range the expected match between the devices may be poor. In other words the permitted delta range is a way to measure whether each device is in an area with a same or similar gradient of the contours of the associated design model map .

In a particular embodiment mismatch lookup table includes one or more match records each of which identifies a particular set of features of a device design that can cause a mismatch in the performance of an instantiation for a particular manufacturing process. Each match record can identify the following the device instantiations to be matched a match record number a selected feature a region of interest dimension a critical feature and a critical feature tolerance. Table 1 provides an example of mismatch lookup table . Here for example the device instantiations to be matched include devices and of described below . In the example of Table 1 there are three match records as described below with respect to . The selected feature of each match record identifies a physical feature of the given device instantiations to be matched and usually is a feature that is defined by one or more mask layers or a value at a location or set of locations as defined by a design model map. In the example of Table 1 the selected feature of match record 1 is the gate area of the instantiations the selected feature of match record 2 is the active area of the instantiations and the selected feature of match record 3 includes the devices of the instantiations. Other examples of selected features include n type active areas p type active areas interconnects certain levels of interconnects channel regions and other features as needed or desired. Typically the select feature is associated with portions of the particular device type that affect performance variations between instantiations.

The region of interest ROI dimension is a dimension stored at the match record that is used to identify a region proximate the selected features of each instantiation and is used to indicate the region that is to be analyzed by mismatch module . This region to be analyzed is referred to as the region of interest. In the example of Table 1 the region of interest dimension applied to the gate area of match record 1 is 0 nanometers nm i.e. only the gate area is selected the region of interest dimension applied to the active area of match record 2 is 20 nm and the region of interest dimension applied to the device area of match record 3 is 0 nm. The region of interest dimension for the select features can also be a negative value indicating that the region of interest includes only a portion of the select feature. Typically the select feature is associated with portions of the particular device type that affect performance variations between instantiations. It may be noted that the region of interest may also have different dimensions in the x and y directions relative to the device or feature of interest and that for a given layer there may be more than one region of interest for example for different process steps such as etch and CMP.

Each match record also includes a critical feature that indicates a characteristic feature to be analyzed within the region of interest dimension and which can be the same or different than the selected feature. In the example of Table 1 the critical feature for the gate area of match record 1 includes the metal mask layers that overlay the gate mask the critical feature for the active area of match record 2 includes the active mask layers that make up the active area and the critical feature for the device of match record 3 includes a temperature map such as a temperature map from design model maps . Typically the critical feature of the device design is a feature that causes a performance variation to occur at the portion of the device type identified by the selected feature.

The critical feature tolerance quantifies how much critical feature variation between instantiations is an acceptable amount in order to deem the pair of devices as matched or mismatched. In the example of Table 1 the critical feature tolerance for match record 1 is provided as an area of XY

Further the critical feature tolerance for match record 3 is described by variation consistent with a map of a temperature variation T of T

The matching of devices contrasts with a design rule in that the design rule can ensure that a particular feature on each device meets common criteria and therefore that the devices meet a particular performance level within a defined range while matching ensures that the electrical performance of each device is similar based upon the surroundings of the devices. As such the designs of a pair of devices that are to be matched can each meet a particular set of design rules and furthermore have closely or identically matched layout yet they may fail to have similar enough electrical performance for a particular application because of the presence of surrounding devices components or features or process model effects on the pair of devices.

Elements and labeled B and B respectively represent elements that are of the same type and that are to be matched but that are on different portions of fabricated integrated circuit . For example elements B and B can include fringe capacitors transistors operational amplifiers or other elements which are of the same type and are intended to exhibit the same electrical performance but are on different portions of fabricated integrated circuit . Here because elements B and B are arranged on different portions of fabricated integrated circuit the local process variation environment for element B may be different from the process variation environment for element B. For example elements B and B may be in portions of fabricated integrated circuit that are experiencing different lattice stresses different power thermal or current gradients different topographical densities that are subject to different aging effects or otherwise be in regions that experience different process conditions. As such the electrical performance of element B can be compared with the electrical performance of element B based on a mapping of various process models on fabricated integrated circuit .

Regions of interest and relate to features of devices and formed by the gates of respective devices and . For example an undesirable capacitive coupling in the gates of devices and can depend upon an amount of interconnect metal overrunning the respective gates being greater than or equal to 40 nm. Match record 1 of Table 1 illustrates this example where as illustrated in the capacitive coupling to the gate of device can be matched to the capacitive coupling of the gate of device and to confirm that the area of overrunning metal is different between the instantiations by less than 40 nm. Note that a particular region of interest can be compared based upon different circuit layers or upon different masks that make up the layers. When the comparison fails then the designer of the integrated circuit can iterate the design of the associated layer or mask to ensure that circuit devices and are matched within the desired tolerances.

Regions of interest and relate to active area features surrounding the active areas of devices and . For example matching of the electrical performance of devices and can be dependent upon the proximity of tiling areas and active areas of other devices to the active areas of devices and . Match record 2 of Table 1 illustrates this example where as illustrated in region of interest includes an active area of circuit device an active area of switch and active areas and region of interest includes an active area of circuit device and active areas .

Thus for example tiling features on fabricated integrated circuit can create different stresses on the substrate that can affect the electrical performance of circuit devices and . Therefore it can be desirable to modify the layout of the elements that are proximate to circuit devices and to better match their electrical performance. Further the effects from the tiling features on circuit devices and can be greater in one axis than in the other. As such the tolerance value for the first dimension is not necessarily the same as the tolerance value for the second dimension. For example dimensions and can be 25 nm 45 nm and 15 nm respectively with a tolerance of 20 nm for the first axis. Further dimensions and can be 20 nm 20 nm and 10 nm respectively with a tolerance of 15 nm for the second axis. A modified comparison is generated by performing a logical XOR between regions of interest and taking into account the tolerances for each axis such that a difference active area is defined as the area where active areas are different from active areas by greater than the tolerances for each axis. Here for example because dimension is smaller than the tolerance value for the first axis and dimension is smaller than the tolerance value for the second axis the portion of difference area that is defined by dimensions and is excluded from modified comparison and a design iteration can be performed on the active layer to eliminate difference shape so that the electrical performance of circuit devices and can be more closely matched. In another embodiment areas of the difference shapes can be used in conjunction with or in contrast to the dimensions in each axis. Moreover while it is an option for critical features to result in comparison of individual shapes it may also be necessary to compare many or all features of a mask including active areas and tiles as one entity.

Fabricated integrated circuit includes a first pair of devices labeled A and A that are desired to have their electrical performance matched to each other and a second pair of devices labeled B and B that are desired to have their electrical performance matched to each other. Mapped process variation indicates that device A is in an area of fabricated integrated circuit that has a very different process variation value than device A and that devices B and B are in an area of fabricated integrated circuit that has a nearly constant process variation value. As such devices A and A may have a source of mismatch with respect to the first process variation while devices B and B may not have a source of mismatch with respect to the first process variation. Mapped process variation indicates that devices A and A are in an area of fabricated integrated circuit that has a nearly constant process variation value and that devices B and B are in an area of fabricated integrated circuit that has a highly variable process variation value. Thus devices A and A may not have a source of mismatch with respect to the second process variation but devices B and B may have a source of mismatch with respect to the second process variation.

Mapped process variation indicates that both of the pairs of devices A and A and B and B are in areas of fabricated integrated circuit that have significantly different process variation values. Thus both of the device pairs A and A and B and B may have sources of mismatch with respect to the third process variation. Mapped process variation indicates that both of the pairs of devices A and A and B and B are in areas of fabricated integrated circuit that have nearly constant process variation values. As such neither pair of devices A and A and B and B may have sources of mismatch with respect to the fourth process variation. In a particular embodiment the average value for a process variation can be calculated across a region of interest for devices to be matched and the average value can be provided as the value to comparator as described above. In another embodiment the range of process variation values across a region of interest for devices to be matched can be provided to comparator . In yet another embodiment values of process variation at each corresponding point within a region of interest may be provided to comparator to be compared with the corresponding points in the device instantiations. One or more of mapped process variations or are exemplified by match record 3 of Table 1.

A critical feature of the region of interest is identified for matching in block . The critical feature is identified based upon mismatch lookup table . For example the metal overlay layers are identified as the critical feature to be matched in match record 1 of Table 1. In another example a variation or a delta range in a particular parameter from design model maps can be identified such as the variation and delta range in the temperature map as indicated in match record 3 of Table 1. The critical features of each instantiation of the devices to be matched are compared to determine if the instantiations are matched to within a critical feature tolerance in block . The critical feature tolerance is identified based upon mismatch lookup table . For example devices and can be determined to be matched according to match record 1 of Table 1 if the area of metal overlaying the respective gates differs by less than 40 nm.

A decision is made as to whether or not the critical feature tolerance is the last critical feature tolerance for the match record in decision block . If not the NO branch of decision block is taken and the method returns to block where another critical feature of the region of interest is identified for matching. For example as indicated by match record 2 of Table 1 the active masks can have a different critical feature tolerance in the X direction than in the Y direction. If the critical feature tolerance is the last critical feature tolerance that is to be matched the YES branch of decision block is taken and a decision is made as to whether or not the selected match record is the last match record of match record table in decision block . If not the NO branch of decision block is taken and the method returns to block where a next match record is identified. If the selected match record is the last match record that is to be matched the YES branch of decision block is taken and a decision is made as to whether or not the selected devices are the last devices to be matched in decision block . If not the NO branch of decision block is taken and the method returns to block where another pair of devices of the integrated circuit that are to be matched to each other are identified. If the selected devices are the last devices that are to be matched the YES branch of decision block is taken and the mismatches are logged in block . The logged mismatches are considered in revising the design file for the identified devices in block and the method ends in block . For example if the comparison of an active mask identifies that the active area areas within the regions of interest are different by more than 2 nm in the X dimension as indicated by match record 2 then the gate mask can be modified to correct the mismatch. Note that the order for blocks and are exemplary and that the order thereof may be changed as needed or desired. Moreover while the illustrated flowchart shows sequential operation the steps of the method may be performed in parallel branches as needed or desired.

In a networked deployment processing system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server client user network environment or as a peer processing system in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. Further while a single processing system is illustrated the term system shall also be taken to include any collection of systems or sub systems that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.

Processing system may include one or more processors e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both. Moreover processing system can include a main memory and a static memory that can communicate with each other via a bus . As shown processing system may further include a video display unit such as a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED a flat panel display a solid state display or a cathode ray tube CRT . Additionally processing system may include an input device such as a keyboard and a cursor control device such as a mouse. Processing system can also include a disk drive unit a signal generation device such as a speaker and a network interface device .

In a particular embodiment disk drive unit may include a computer readable medium in which one or more sets of instructions e.g. software can be embedded. Further instructions may embody one or more of the methods or logic as described herein. In a particular embodiment instructions may reside completely or at least partially within main memory static memory and or within processor during execution by processing system . Main memory and processor also may include computer readable media. Network interface device can provide connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or other network.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein may be implemented in whole or in part by software programs executable by processing system . The present disclosure contemplates a computer readable storage device e.g. main memory static memory or drive unit that includes instructions or receives and provides instructions for execution. Further data representative of an integrated circuit design can be stored in one or more of the computer readable storage devices for access by processing system during execution of instructions so as to implement the methods described above.

While the computer readable storage device is shown to be a single storage device the term computer readable storage device includes a single storage device or multiple storage devices such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage device shall also include any storage device that is capable of storing a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that causes a processing system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein.

In a particular non limiting exemplary embodiment the computer readable storage device can include a solid state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non volatile read only memories. Further the computer readable storage device can be a random access memory or other volatile re writeable memory. Additionally the computer readable storage device can include a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tapes or other storage device.

In an alternative embodiment dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and processing systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system encompasses software firmware and hardware implementations.

In this document relational terms such as first and second and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another entity or action without necessarily requiring or implying any actual relationship or order between such entities or actions or any actual relationship or order between such entities and claimed elements. The term another as used herein is defined as at least a second or more. The terms including having or any variation thereof as used herein are defined as comprising. The terms integrated circuit device component feature or any variations thereof as used herein are understood to be devices.

Other embodiments uses and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the disclosure disclosed herein. The specification and drawings should be considered as examples only and the scope of the disclosure is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims and equivalents thereof.

Note that not all of the activities or elements described above in the general description are required that a portion of a specific activity or device may not be required and that one or more further activities may be performed or elements included in addition to those described. Still further the order in which activities are listed are not necessarily the order in which they are performed.

Also the concepts have been described with reference to specific embodiments. However one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present disclosure.

Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described above with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any feature s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential feature of any or all the claims.

