---

title: Low voltage high efficiency gallium arsenide power amplifier
abstract: A low voltage, switch mode PHEMT power amplifier with a 0.1 μm gate length and a low loss, lumped element, output matching circuit is disclosed that provides high performance over a frequency range of 1.4 GHz-2.5 GHz. The amplifier makes use of monolithic circuit technology for the first stage and output transistor, and uses a printed circuit board with surface mount components for the output matching network. The power output of the power amplifier is stable over a range of 60 degrees centigrade, has high power efficiencies of 44-53% with greater than 2 watts output power over the frequency range of 1.4 GHz and 2.5 GHz. In addition, through drain voltage control, the output power can be varied over a wide range between about 0.8 to 2.5 watts while still maintaining a high efficiency in the range of 50±3%.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09083291&OS=09083291&RS=09083291
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 09083291
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120812
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 61 522 748 filed Aug. 12 2011 which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

The invention was made with United States Government assistance under contract No. BAE SC 08 0388 awarded by a classified customer. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to Pseudomorphic High Electron Mobility Transistors PHEMT and more particularly to compact low voltage high efficiency switch mode PHEMT power amplifiers.

In many applications particularly for mobile hand held devices solid state power amplifiers are typically the most costly component and are the largest user of electrical power of all components in such devices. Mobile hand held devices typically utilize batteries with battery life a significant concern in wireless communications devices such as cellular telephones pagers wireless modems laptop computers with wireless capability etc. Radio frequency transmission especially consumes considerable power. A contributing factor to such power consumption is inefficient power amplifier operation. A typical RF power amplifier for wireless communications operates with only about 10 efficiency. Clearly a low cost technique for significantly boosting amplifier efficiency is needed.

To accommodate the power consumed by such power amplifiers the batteries utilized by such handheld devices are relatively heavy expensive and occupy a fair amount of space in the hand held devices. There is always a design tradeoff between the weight and size of a battery and the operational life of the battery. Increasing the efficiency of power amplifiers used in hand held devices reduces the amount of power consumed and can therefore decrease battery size and weight or increase device operating life.

Current low voltage power amplifiers may lose efficiency over temperature variations and drain voltage variations between about 2 4V . Increased battery power consumption may results from this lack of efficiency. Current low voltage power amplifiers may also have limited bandwidth coverage. A need therefore exists in the art for a compact reliable high efficiency power amplifier for operating at low voltages and over approximately one octave bandwidth.

As is known pseudomorphic high electron mobility transistors PHEMTs are extensively used in wireless communication systems for switching power and low noise amplifier applications. These transistors find wide market acceptance because of their high RF gain and power added efficiency PAE low noise figure NF and high reliability. The excellent properties of these transistors also make them attractive for use in satellite communication systems including direct broadcast satellite television DBS TV and global satellite communication systems. PHEMT technology is also used in high speed analog and digital IC s such as 2.5 10 Gb s light wave communication systems. The higher frequency response of PHEMTs are currently finding use in millimeter wave communications 40 Gb s and radar systems.

In the prior art to increase the RF power that a PHEMT transistor amplifier can supply the width of the gate finger of the transistor is increased. However the bandwidth of the transistor is reduced as the gate width is increased. To adjust for this decreased bandwidth in the prior art a transistor with a shorter gate finger width is utilized since the frequency response of the transistor is inversely proportional to the gate finger width. The number of individual transistor cells connected in parallel which form the total gate periphery is increased. However this increases the physical size of the PHEMT transistor s drain manifold which decreases the frequency response. In addition prior art PHEMT power transistors operate at relatively high voltages.

Thus there is a need in the prior art for a PHEMT transistor power amplifier that can deliver increased power over a broad bandwidth but being smaller than equivalent prior art PHEMT transistor power amplifiers and having high efficiency being very reliable and capable of operation at low voltages. Further there is a need for a PHEMT transistor power amplifier that can operate at low voltages on the order of 3.3 volts which matches the voltage of many current batteries and therefore reduces battery weight compared to prior art battery powered PHEMT transistor power amplifiers. In addition there is a need for a PHEMT transistor power amplifier that has improved power handling capability in a small size while operating at lower temperatures due to the increased efficiency of the transistor.

The differences of the prior art are met by the present invention. The applicant s novel single recess SR pseudomorphic high electron mobility transistor PHEMT power amplifier gets around the problems of prior art PHEMT power amplifiers by utilizing T gate technology and increasing the gate width but at the same time decreasing the gate length to less than that in the prior art. The novel PHEMT transistor power amplifier has a shorter gate length on the order of 0.1 m which permits longer gate widths to be utilized while maintaining a high Fin the transistor. This allows good wave shaping of the voltage and current waveforms due to the high gain at the 2and 3harmonic frequencies. In addition this increases the power added efficiency PAE of the novel single recess SR PHEMT power amplifier so that its operating temperature is lower and it can operate at ambient temperatures with minimal heat sink due to the increased efficiency of the transistor.

The novel PHEMT transistor power amplifier also operates with low DC voltages typically on the order of 3.3 volts so it is ideal for battery powered applications. This low voltage operation rules out GaN high voltage GaAs and other high voltage processes.

The novel PHEMT power transistor is coupled with a low loss lumped element output matching circuit that also helps overcome problems in the prior art that are described hereinabove. The PHEMT transistor power amplifier and output matching circuit is compact and the transistor amplifier operates in a switched mode.

The output matching circuit is comprised of high quality factor inexpensive surface mount lumped components on a separate substrate. The matching circuit provides the fundamental frequency match from the low optimal impedance required by the transistor to the system impedance of 50 ohms. It also incorporates frequency traps at the 2and 3harmonic frequencies thereby presenting an optimum impedance at those frequencies to the transistor. This allows the transistor to operate in a switch mode where the voltage across the transistor is zero when current flows and the current is zero during the part of the cycle when there is a voltage across the transistor.

The novel PHEMT transistor power amplifier has a gate length of 0.1 m that allows control of the amplifier load conditions over many harmonics and over a wide frequency range of 1.8 1 with a wide drain voltage operation 1.5V 4.0V at 1.5 Watts of output power. PHEMT amplifiers of varying configurations are typically used at frequencies between 20 80 GHz but the novel PHEMT transistor power amplifier described herein is intended to operate with low voltage applications at lower microwave frequencies of approximately an octave between 1.4 GHz and 2.5 GHz.

Further the novel PHEMT transistor power amplifier can achieve high power efficiencies of 44 53 with greater than 2 watts output power between the frequency range of 1.4 GHz to 2.5 GHz. In addition the output power can be varied over a wide range between 0.8 to 2.5 watts while still maintaining a high efficiency in the range of 50 3 .

The invention is a novel power amplifier utilizing a pseudomorphic high electron mobility transistor PHEMT and a low loss lumped element output matching circuit to provide power efficiencies much higher than the 10 efficiency of prior art power amplifiers. The PHEMT power amplifier makes use of monolithic circuit technology for the first stage and output transistor and uses a printed circuit board with surface mount components for the output matching network.

Most important is that a PHEMT utilized with the novel power amplifier of the preferred embodiment disclosed herein has a 0.1 m gate length a 200 m unit gate width and a 12.8 mm total gate width. However a PHEMT utilized with the invention is not limited to these values. In manufacture a number of PHEMT devices are constructed in parallel to achieve a greater total gate width which also provides greater power handling capability. When mounted in an integrated package the complete power amplifier comprising the novel PHEMT and associated low loss lumped element output matching circuit occupy an area about one square centimeter.

Very basically PHEMT is a field effect transistor FET which includes three terminals 1 a source 2 a drain and 3 a gate. When a threshold voltage is applied to the gate a field effect takes place in a region of semiconductor material under the gate called the gate region . The effect is either a build up of charge or a depletion of charge in the gate region. Which event occurs depends on the doping conductivity type of the gate region and the polarity of the gate voltage. The build up or depletion of charges creates a channel under the gate that electrically connects the source and the drain. If a channel is present while the drain region is biased with a voltage and the source region is grounded relative to the drain region then a current will flow through the channel between the drain and source regions.

The PHEMT shown in is based on a double heterojunction epi structure. PHEMT has a 2 mil GaAs substrate upon which is eptaxially deposited aGaAs buffer layer . On top of GaAs buffer layer is epitaxially deposited an InGaAs channel layer . The InGaAs channel layer has doping on both sides to provide a higher sheet charge density for higher full channel current and output power. The InGaAs layer provides controllable conductivity between the source and drain .

An undoped AlGaAs spacer layer is epitaxially deposited on top of InGaAs channel layer . Deposited on top of AlGaAs spacer layer is a thin Silicon planar doping layer . Above the silicon doping layer is epitaxially deposited an n ALGaAs layer which is the Scottky layer and it is lightly doped.

Above the n AlGaAs layer is epitaxially deposited a highly doped n GaAs capping layer typically having a thickness of 1 100 nanometers. A gap is recess etched through n GaAs capping layer to expose the top surface of the lightly doped n AlGaAs layer in order to build T gate thereon. With recess etching of the highly doped n GaAs cap layer a photoresist pattern not shown having an opening of a larger width and length than the base of gate electrode is formed. Then the etching is applied to remove the unwanted material. This is done in several steps to create the sloped sides as shown in .

Additional selective recess etching is used to create a small well in the top surface of n GaAs capping layer and T gate is deposited on layer starting in this well. This is the single recess of PHEMT . A picture of the T gate is shown in .

T gate is deposited on top of n ALGaAs layer . A T gate structure allows gate to source capacitance and gate finger resistance to be significantly reduced allowing PHEMT to operate at higher operating frequencies which is advantageous for the present invention. It can be seen in that the base of gate has a gate length dimension of 0.1 m. A gate is typically created using bi layer resist e beam lithography followed by TiPtAu metallization of gate to form a Schottky junction between gate and layer .

In the equivalent circuit of PHEMT there are 2 diodes a gate source diode and a gate drain diode. The reverse breakdown of the gate drain diode often limits the power performance even in a low voltage operation. Even though the novel power amplifier described herein is a low voltage operation the instantaneous voltage in operation of a switch mode amplifier is greater than three times the quiescent drain voltage. Another advantage of using this process is that there is a very good off state breakdown despite the small 0.1 m gate length.

On top of the left hand portion of capping layer is a first ohmic contact which is the Source terminal of the PHEMT and on top of the right hand portion of capping layer is a second ohmic contact which is the Drain terminal of PHEMT . The Source and Drain terminals and are formed of AuGe metal thin films having a typical contact resistance of 0.11 mm. Typically the AuGe metal thin film is formed on the n GaAs cap layer and is subjected to rapid thermal annealing RTA to form the Source electrode and the Drain electrode is in ohmic contact with the n GaAs cap layer . Therefore these electrodes have a low contact resistance with the n GaAs cap layer which increases the breakdown voltage and maintains the knee voltage low thereby improving device power characteristics.

Although not shown in a thin Au layer is electroplated on top of both Source electrode and Drain electrode and they are connected to respective source pad and drain pads thereby resulting in the a PHEMT utilized in the novel power amplifier. After the ohmic contacts have been formed a protective insulating layer not shown for example a silicon nitride layer is formed to protect any exposed surface of the n GaAs capping layer .

In is shown a schematic diagram of a low loss lumped element output matching circuit network that also helps overcomes the problems in the prior art that are mentioned in the Summary of the Invention with reference to this output matching circuit. The output matching circuit is comprised of high quality factor inexpensive surface mount lumped components on a separate substrate. The matching circuit provides the fundamental frequency match from the low optimal impedance required by the PHEMT transistor to the system impedance of 50 ohms. In alternative embodiments of the invention the system impedance may be other than 50 ohms. It also incorporates frequency traps at the 2nd and 3rd harmonic frequencies thereby presenting a optimum impedance at those frequencies to the transistor. This allows the transistor to operate in an optimum switch mode state where the voltage across the transistor is zero when current flows and the current is zero during the part of the cycle when there is a voltage across the transistor.

A switch mode transistor operates as an on off switch and the shapes of the current and voltage waveforms provide a condition where the high current and high voltage do not overlap simultaneously to minimize the power dissipation and maximize the power amplifier efficiency. This is defined in the art as a Class E non linear power amplifier which have much higher efficiencies than linear amplifiers and are used at such high frequencies that the switching time becomes comparable to the duty time. Class E amplifiers typically have a load network which is the matching circuit of the present invention which are capacitances and inductances. The PHEMT transistor is connected via a serial LC circuit of L and C to a load at the output of the matching network and is connected via an inductor not shown to a supply voltage from the PHEMT transistors s . The supply voltage is connected to ground via capacitor C to prevent any RF signals leaking into the supply voltage. Connected between capacitor C and inductor L is a drain bias voltage of between 2.5 volts and 4.0 volts. This drain bias voltage is sent via inductor L and lead VD to the drain contact of the PHEMT transistor in . These drain bias voltages Vare shown in the graph in and their effect on the power output and power added efficiency PAE performance of the PHEMT power amplifier over more than an octave bandwidth.

More particularly capacitor C is a direct current DC bypass capacitor capacitor C is a charge storage capacitor capacitor C is a DC blocking capacitor blocking the DC voltage from the PHEMT transistor and inductor L is a DC choke for drain bias injection. The remainder of the output matching circuit L C and L C C is an impedance transforming network with a low pass form which includes resonant filter networks comprising inductor L with capacitor C and inductor L with capacitor C for improved harmonic rejection. The parasitics of the pads and short interconnecting lines are absorbed into the filter network.

Regarding the single recess SR PHEMT utilized in the novel power amplifier operates with a low Drain voltage of 3.3 volts which limits power density and power added efficiency PAE and requires the use of a low knee voltage V process to compensate for same. The knee voltage is the voltage at which the IV response curves transition from linear to saturation and is shown in for the GaAs material utilized. The knee voltage Vfor a prior art GaN PHEMT is shown in . It can be seen in that GaN is not practical for low voltage operation. Stated another way the forward operating region of the characteristic curve where conduction starts to increase rapidly is called the Knee voltage V . This is shown in both but it can be seen that Vfor Gallium Nitride GaN in is much higher than the Vfor Gallium Arsenide GaAs in . PHEMT has a low knee voltage of 1.0 volts for GaAs. The low knee voltage permits maximize voltage swing and permits higher gain at lower voltages.

Expanding on the description of a PHEMT to be utilized with the novel power amplifier the PHEMT transistor that is used in the novel power amplifier has a 0.1 m gate length and is fabricated using 6 inch single recess SR PHEMT MMIC fabrication that utilizes mostly cassette to cassette equipment in the foundry. The highly automatic wafer processing reduces human wafer handling and improves visual yield. The epitaxial layers of the PHEMTs are grown via molecular beam epitaxy MBE and are isolated through mesa etching. Ohmic contacts forming source and drain contacts are formed using a Au Ge based process with a typical contact resistance of 0.11 mm. TaN is used for thin film resistors and two metal layers are used for interconnects. 0.1 m T gates are realized through bilayer resist e beam lithography and fully selective etching of the n cap followed by Ti Pt Au metallization to form the Schottky junction. An example of a 0.1 m T gate is shown in . FETs are passivated using PECVD SiN followed by creation of 400 pF mmMIM capacitors. All wafers are fully backside processed using a 2 mil substrate process with small size slot vias to provide direct source grounding for reduced source inductance and improved thermal resistance. The 2 mil via technology is critical for high frequency power operation. Connection to the front side of the wafers is achieved with the use of plated Au.

The 0.1 m gate length single recess SR PHEMT utilized in the novel power amplifier is based on a double heterojunction epi structure with doping on both sides of the InGaAs channel to provide a higher sheet charge density for higher full channel current and output power. Automated electrical testing of key process parameters are tracked using our process control monitor PCM . Critical parameters such as the full channel current I g BV V device isolation thin film resistance and capacitance are measured at different stages of the process and adjustments made accordingly. The SR PHEMT exhibits extrinsic transconductance of 570 mS mm at Vof 2.5V with I max of 615 mA mm. Off state gate drain breakdown was measured to be 11.5V with on state channel breakdown of 7V V 0.3V . Table I immediately below shows the tight distribution of device DC characteristics as well as the extremely high DC and RF spec yield.

With the improved power efficiencies of the novel PHEMT power amplifier significant improvements are seen in performance degradation usually due to temperature. Output power levels were changed over a range of 9 while the temperature of the device remained at close to 60 degrees Celsius degrees. Thus the high efficiency operations described above results in minimal self heating while maintaining a low channel temperature. Low temperatures in turn provide increased reliability of the device.

The applicant s novel power amplifier operates with the PHEMT being operated in switch mode. To operate in this mode it is necessary to drive the PHEMT rapidly between cutoff and full on and then back to cutoff in a repetitive manner. In switch mode the gate voltage is merely used to switch the device from a resistive element to a small capacitive element. As previously described with reference to the output matching circuit provides the fundamental frequency match from the low optimal impedance required by the transistor to the system impedance of 50 ohms. It also incorporates frequency traps at the 2nd and 3rd harmonic frequencies thereby presenting an optimum impedance at those frequencies to the transistor. This allows the transistor to operate in the switch mode where the voltage across the transistor is zero when current flows and the current is zero during the part of the cycle when there is a voltage across the transistor.

In summary in testing of the novel PHEMT power amplifier efficiencies of 44 to 53 were achieved with output power levels being greater than 2 Watts between the frequency range of 1.4 GHz and 2.5 GHz. In one configuration of the PHEMT power amplifier where its output power was varied over a wide range of 0.8 Watts to 2.5 Watts the power efficiency of the amplifier was in the range of 50 3 . To achieve this level of performance the PHEMT transistor power amplifier has a gate length of 0.1 m that allows control of the amplifier load conditions over many harmonics and over a wide frequency range of 1.8 1 with a wide drain voltage operation 2.5V 4.0V at 1.5 Watts of output power.

While what has been described herein is a preferred embodiment of the invention those skilled in the art will recognize that numerous changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

